<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-GB">
	<head>
		<title>The Isthmian Odes</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:non-fiction">
		<section id="the-isthmian-odes" epub:type="division z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">The Isthmian Odes</h2>
			<section id="isthmian-1" epub:type="chapter">
				<header>
					<h3>
						<span epub:type="label">Isthmian</span>
						<span epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">I</span>
					</h3>
					<p epub:type="bridgehead">For Herodotus of Thebes, on his victory in the chariot-race, <abbr epub:type="se:era">BC</abbr> 458 (?). The poet commences with an apology to Delos for making this ode take precedence of the completion of a paean to Apollo, which he was composing for the island of Keos (Paean <span epub:type="z3998:roman">IV</span>).</p>
				</header>
				<section id="isthmian-1-1">
					<header>
						<p>Strophe 1</p>
					</header>
					<p>
						<span>Mother mine, O Thebe of shield all-golden,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Me shall thy sovran behest embolden,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">How full soever mine hands be, to lay</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">All other service aside for to-day.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>O Delos, thou for whose exaltation</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Hath my soul been outpoured, have no indignation!</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">What to a son true-hearted can be</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">More dear than a mother? Ah, yield to my plea,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Isle of Apollo! By grace of Heaven</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Shall coupled fulfilment ere long be given</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">Unto hymnal-homages twain by me,</span>
					</p>
				</section>
				<section id="isthmian-1-2">
					<header>
						<p>Antistrophe 1</p>
					</header>
					<p>
						<span>When to Him of the hair unshorn I come paying</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Due honour with choral dance-arraying</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">In Keos by sea-waves weltered about⁠—</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">Strains hailed by her shipmen with jubilant shout⁠—</span>
						<br/>
						<span>And honour the Isthmian ridge that doth sunder</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Two seas that against its crag-walls thunder.</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">To Kadmus’ people from Isthmus have gone</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">Six crowns in her athlete-contests won</span>
						<br/>
						<span>To grace with triumphant victory’s glory</span>
						<br/>
						<span>My motherland, where, as is told in story,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">Of Alkmena was born that aweless son</span>
					</p>
				</section>
				<section id="isthmian-1-3">
					<header>
						<p>Epode 1</p>
					</header>
					<p>
						<span>At whom quaked Geryon’s Hounds, that never had quaked before.</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">For Herodotus frame I an honour-lay, for his four-horse team,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>And the reins that himself swayed, needing none other man’s chariot-lore.</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">I will sing so that he as a Kastor or lolaus shall seem;</span>
						<br/>
						<span>For these of all heroes were mightiest charioteers on earth.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Unto the one Lacedaemon, Thebes to the other gave birth.</span>
					</p>
				</section>
				<section id="isthmian-1-4">
					<header>
						<p>Strophe 2</p>
					</header>
					<p>
						<span>More athlete-contests did these adventure</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Than any of champions beside dared enter,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">And with brazen tripods their halls they graced,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">And with cauldrons and goblets of gold rich-chased;</span>
						<br/>
						<span>For they tasted the rapture of strife victorious,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>And they bore thence garlands of triumph glorious;</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">And ever their prowess shone clear and bright,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">Alike in the course where in eagle-flight</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Raced runners with vestureless limbs white-flashing,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>And when with the shields on their shoulders clashing</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">Men ran arrayed in the harness of fight,</span>
					</p>
				</section>
				<section id="isthmian-1-5">
					<header>
						<p>Antistrophe 2</p>
					</header>
					<p>
						<span>And in all the deeds of their hands⁠—in hurling</span>
						<br/>
						<span>The javelin, and when they sped far-whirling</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">Across the field the discus of stone:⁠—</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">For as yet was no fivefold contest known;</span>
						<br/>
						<span>But each of the several strifes was striven</span>
						<br/>
						<span>By itself, and to each was its own prize given.</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">So, many a time and oft, their hair</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">Wreathed with the victory-garlands fair,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>These twain where Dirke’s fount upleapeth,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Or where Eurotas’ swift flood sweepeth,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">Bowed thanking the nurturing waters there,</span>
					</p>
				</section>
				<section id="isthmian-1-6">
					<header>
						<p>Epode 2</p>
					</header>
					<p>
						<span>By Dirke, Iphikles’ son, his descent from the Dragon who drew;</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">By Eurotas, Tyndareus’ scion, who dwelt the Achaians among,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>In his highland home of Therapnae. And now farewell unto you!</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">O’er Poseidon and holy Isthmus I cast the mantle of song,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>And over Onchestus’ shores; and as this man’s honours I tell,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>I will sing of the fate to Asopodorus his sire that befell.</span>
					</p>
				</section>
				<section id="isthmian-1-7">
					<header>
						<p>Strophe 3</p>
					</header>
					<p>
						<span>And Orchomenus’ fields in my lay shall be chanted,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Henceforth by his father’s memory haunted,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">Who was cast on her strand, a shipwrecked wight,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">From the boundless waters, in evil plight;</span>
						<br/>
						<span>But with welcoming kindness that land embraced him.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Yet his house’s fortune hath now upraised him</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">To behold once more the unclouded ray</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">Of prosperity’s sun of the former day.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Yea, he who hath suffered sore tribulation</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Wins forethought for pain’s one compensation.</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">And bears it thenceforth in his heart for aye.</span>
					</p>
				</section>
				<section id="isthmian-1-8">
					<header>
						<p>Antistrophe 3</p>
					</header>
					<p>
						<span>If a man seek noble achievement’s attaining,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>With his soul’s full energies upward straining,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">Unsparing alike of cost and pains,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">Meet is it that when at the last he gains</span>
						<br/>
						<span>The prize, our ennobling praise he inherit</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Lavished on him with ungrudging spirit.</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">For easy it is for the bard inspired,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">When by hard toil won is the goal desired,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>To acclaim his endeavours with glad laudation,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>And, along with the man, that the fame of his nation</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">Be set on high to be world-admired.</span>
					</p>
				</section>
				<section id="isthmian-1-9">
					<header>
						<p>Epode 3</p>
					</header>
					<p>
						<span>Sweet unto diverse men is the meed that from labour they reap,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">To the shepherd, the ploughman, the fowler, to him who is fed from the sea.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Yet of these each strives but the wolf of hunger at bay to keep;</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">But who wins in the Games renown, or in battle victory,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>When all men extol his achievement, receiveth the highest gain,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>For praises as flowers on his head do strangers and citizens rain.</span>
					</p>
				</section>
				<section id="isthmian-1-10">
					<header>
						<p>Strophe 4</p>
					</header>
					<p>
						<span>O, well it beseemeth our lips, the awaking</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Of thanksgiving-praise to the King earth-shaking,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">Who is also our neighbour, Kronos’ son,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">He who sped of his kindness our chariots on,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Who is God of the swift steed goalward racing.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Meet is it withal that our song be praising,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">Amphitryon, those great sons of thine,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">And the Minyan valley’s recess divine,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>And Eleusis’ Grove world-celebrated</span>
						<br/>
						<span>To the Goddess Demeter consecrated,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">And Euboea’s course’s curving line.</span>
					</p>
				</section>
				<section id="isthmian-1-11">
					<header>
						<p>Antistrophe 4</p>
					</header>
					<p>
						<span>And with these I acclaim, as in holy paean,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Thy sacred precinct by heroes Achaean</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">Reared, Protesilaus, in Phylake.</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">But to tell over every victory</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Which Hermes the Lord of the Games hath given</span>
						<br/>
						<span>To the steeds that in many a race have striven</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">To win for Herodotus triumph’s bay,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">The narrowing limits of this my lay</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Take from me. Yea, and often the keeping</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Of silence bringeth a richer reaping</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">Of joy, seeing Envy is balked of her prey.</span>
					</p>
				</section>
				<section id="isthmian-1-12">
					<header>
						<p>Epode 4</p>
					</header>
					<p>
						<span>Upborne on the shining wings of the sweet-voiced Muses nine,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">With garlands from Pytho, with choicest wreaths from Alpheus’ flood</span>
						<br/>
						<span>And Olympia’s contests won, may he his hands entwine</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">For the honour of Thebes seven-gated. But if one secretly brood</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Over hoarded wealth, and at other men mouth, he considereth not</span>
						<br/>
						<span>That to death he is rendering up his soul⁠—and his name shall rot.</span>
					</p>
				</section>
			</section>
			<section id="isthmian-2" epub:type="chapter">
				<header>
					<h3>
						<span epub:type="label">Isthmian</span>
						<span epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">II</span>
					</h3>
					<p epub:type="bridgehead">For Xenokrates of Akragas, and his son Thrasybulus, on the victory in the chariot-race won by their charioteer Nikomachus, <abbr epub:type="se:era">BC</abbr> 472 (?). The ode was composed after the death of Xenokrates, and hence is addressed to his son.</p>
				</header>
				<section id="isthmian-2-1">
					<header>
						<p>Strophe 1</p>
					</header>
					<p>
						<span>The singers of old, Thrasybulus, who mounted the car of the Queens of Song,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>The golden-tired, giving voice to the ringing lyre and the tuneful tongue,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">Shot lightly the arrows of honey-sweet strains in the fair one’s praise,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">Whosoever by bright summer-bloom of lovely form and face</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">Stirred hearts to dream upon splendour-throned Aphrodite’s grace.</span>
					</p>
				</section>
				<section id="isthmian-2-2">
					<header>
						<p>Antistrophe 1</p>
					</header>
					<p>
						<span>For then was the Muse not yet a lover of gain, nor a hireling was she.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Nor then honey-throated Terpsichore sold the melting melody</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">Of her lays, nor with faces silver-masked did they tread the stage.</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">But now she biddeth us heed the word of the Argive sage</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">Which cometh all too near to the truth in this our age:</span>
					</p>
				</section>
				<section id="isthmian-2-3">
					<header>
						<p>Epode 1</p>
					</header>
					<p>
						<span>“ <em>’Tis money, ’tis money that maketh the man!</em>” he said,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>When his friends forsook him so soon as his wealth had fled.</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">But enough⁠—thou art wise. O, famous afar</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">Is the Isthmian victory won by the car</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i4">Thy swift steeds drew, that I sing.</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">For Poseidon gave to thy sire renown,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">And the Dorian garland, the parsley crown</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">O’er Xenokrates’ hair did he fling.</span>
					</p>
				</section>
				<section id="isthmian-2-4">
					<header>
						<p>Strophe 2</p>
					</header>
					<p>
						<span>And so did he honour the lord of the goodly chariot, Akragas’ star.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>And at Krisa looked down on him graciously Apollo prevailing afar,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">And gave to him glory. In gleaming Athens did he attain</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">Mid the sons of Erechtheus the grace of triumph; nor might he complain 20</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">Of the skill of the hands that lashed his horses and swayed the rein,</span>
					</p>
				</section>
				<section id="isthmian-2-5">
					<header>
						<p>Antistrophe 2</p>
					</header>
					<p>
						<span>Nikomachus’ hands, that gave to his steeds full rein at the moment due,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>He whom the truce-bearing heralds Elean of Zeus Kronion knew,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">Who publish the Season of Games; for his hospitality well</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">They remembered; and sweetly their voices proclaimed o’er the hallowed dell</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">His triumph, when he on the lap of golden Victory fell</span>
					</p>
				</section>
				<section id="isthmian-2-6">
					<header>
						<p>Epode 2</p>
					</header>
					<p>
						<span>In their land, which they name the Grove of Olympus’ Lord,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Where the sons of Aenesidamus gained the award</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">Of honours whose memory aye is enscroUed.</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">For, O Thrasybulus, known from of old</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i4">To the halls of thine ancient line</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">Is the winsome charm of the song that leaps</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">From the lips, as on the procession sweeps</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">In triumph for victory⁠—thine!</span>
					</p>
				</section>
				<section id="isthmian-2-7">
					<header>
						<p>Strophe 3</p>
					</header>
					<p>
						<span>For not uphillward nor steep is the path, if the bard is fain to guide</span>
						<br/>
						<span>The feet of the praises of Helicon’s Maids with famous men to abide.</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">May song’s shaft sped from mine hand as far past all else fly</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">As in sweetness of spirit unto Xenokrates none came nigh.</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">Amidst of his townsmen ever a prince of courtesy,</span>
					</p>
				</section>
				<section id="isthmian-2-8">
					<header>
						<p>Antistrophe 3</p>
					</header>
					<p>
						<span>After the wont of the Panhellenes horse-rearing he fostered still:</span>
						<br/>
						<span>He was constant at every feast of the Gods: no wind’s breath blew so chill</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">On his guest-fain board as to make him furl his canvas-spread;</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">But far as the Phasis in summertide’s gales the fame of him sped.</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">And in wintertide anchored his guest-renown in broad Nile’s bed.<a href="endnotes.xhtml#note-26" id="noteref-26" epub:type="noteref">26</a></span>
					</p>
				</section>
				<section id="isthmian-2-9">
					<header>
						<p>Epode 3</p>
					</header>
					<p>
						<span>What though the cravings of envy like veils bedim</span>
						<br/>
						<span>The vision of many men’s souls?⁠—ah, never let him</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">Hush into coward silence the praise</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">Of his father’s prowess, nor these my lays!</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i4">Not statue-like idly to stand</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">Did I fashion them! Nikesippus, bear</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">This, to my loyal friend to declare,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">When thou comest to that far land.</span>
					</p>
				</section>
			</section>
			<section id="isthmian-3" epub:type="chapter">
				<header>
					<h3>
						<span epub:type="label">Isthmian</span>
						<span epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">III</span>
					</h3>
					<p epub:type="bridgehead">For Melissus of Thebes, on his victory in the chariot-race at Nemea, <abbr epub:type="se:era">BC</abbr> 477 (?). This ode is a mere prelude to <span epub:type="z3998:roman">IV</span>: it is in the same metre, and many scholars are of opinion that they were originally one.</p>
				</header>
				<section id="isthmian-3-1">
					<header>
						<p>Strophe</p>
					</header>
					<p>
						<span>What man soever hath prospered in winning prizes of high renown</span>
						<br/>
						<span>In the Games, or is mighty in wealth, who yet in his spirit crusheth down</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Pestilent arrogance, worthy is he to be graced with his townsmen’s praise;</span>
						<br/>
						<span>For of thee, O Zeus, all excellence cometh that mortal men doth upraise;</span>
						<br/>
						<span>And longer abideth their bliss who reverence thee: with the froward-hearted</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Through life it abides not, but lo, as a suddenly vanishing dream hath departed.</span>
					</p>
				</section>
				<section id="isthmian-3-2">
					<header>
						<p>Antistrophe</p>
					</header>
					<p>
						<span>It beseems that in guerdon of glorious achievement the deeds of the valiant we sing;</span>
						<br/>
						<span>It beseems that mid triumph-procession with grace of loving welcoming</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Should our praises conspire to exalt him! In contests twain hath fortune fair</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Favoured Melissus, to turn his heart to delightsome joy from care.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>In the glens of the Isthmus he won for him crowns: where the thunder-throated lion</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Prowled through the cavernous Nemean dell, he proclaimed him Thebe’s scion</span>
					</p>
				</section>
				<section id="isthmian-3-3">
					<header>
						<p>Epode</p>
					</header>
					<p>
						<span>In the chariot-contest triumphant. He bringeth</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">No stain on the mighty name</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">Of the prowess his sires made glorious</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">Of old. Well know ye the fame</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Which Kleonymus won, as the old lay singeth</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">How his chariot raced victorious.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>By the mother akin to the Labdakid Clan, they walked in the ways of wealth, and they trained</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">With manifold toil the yoke of four.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>But time with its onward-rolling days bringeth change upon change: unscarred, unpained</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">Are none but the Gods’ seed evermore.</span>
					</p>
				</section>
			</section>
			<section id="isthmian-4" epub:type="chapter">
				<header>
					<h3>
						<span epub:type="label">Isthmian</span>
						<span epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">IV</span>
					</h3>
					<p epub:type="bridgehead">For Melissus of Thebes, on his victory in the Pankration at the Isthmus, probably in the year preceding the chariot-victory at Nemea.</p>
				</header>
				<section id="isthmian-4-1">
					<header>
						<p>Strophe 1</p>
					</header>
					<p>
						<span>By grace of the Gods there be countless paths far-spreading before my feet;</span>
						<br/>
						<span>But, Melissus, thou at the Isthmian Games hast shown me a highway meet</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Whereon to follow in song the track of the prowess of thy line</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Wherein the sons of Kleonymus ever have prospered by help divine,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>And so pass on to the term of mortal life; but ever shifting</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Are the winds of fate that swoop upon man, and drive him chartless-drifting.</span>
					</p>
				</section>
				<section id="isthmian-4-2">
					<header>
						<p>Antistrophe 1</p>
					</header>
					<p>
						<span>Ay, the story of these from of yore is told, how with honour in Thebes they were named.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Warders they were of the tribes dwelling round, and in arrogance brawling unshamed</span>
						<br/>
						<span>No part they had; and what records soever there be of the men which have died,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Or of yet living men, such as fly wind-blown through the whole world far and wide,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Records of limitless glory, these they attained in their fullness receiving:</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Yea, Heracles’ Pillars they touched by the gallant deeds of their line’s achieving;⁠—</span>
					</p>
				</section>
				<section id="isthmian-4-3">
					<header>
						<p>Epode 1</p>
					</header>
					<p>
						<span>But let none press on to achievement that reacheth</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">Farther beyond that bound!⁠—</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">And in that house many a lover</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">Of the rearing of steeds was found.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>And they joyed in the lore that the War-god teacheth.</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">But ere one day’s hours passed over,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>The merciless sleet-laden tempest of war had bereft of hero-scions four</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">That hearth once happy; but now again</span>
						<br/>
						<span>After the wintry gloom of the months of changeful vesture, the earth once more</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">Hath blossomed with roses of crimson grain</span>
					</p>
				</section>
				<section id="isthmian-4-4">
					<header>
						<p>Strophe 2</p>
					</header>
					<p>
						<span>By the will of Heaven. The Shaker of Earth, who hath at Onchestus his halls,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>And whose mansion is on the sea-lashed ridge afront of Corinth’s walls,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Even he bestoweth upon that house this hymn of wondrous praise,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>And the olden glory of far-famed deeds from her bed doth he upraise</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Where erst she had fallen on sleep, but now is awakened, and shines resplendent</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Over all her form, as the Morning Star mid the stars is a light transscendent⁠—</span>
					</p>
				</section>
				<section id="isthmian-4-5">
					<header>
						<p>Antistrophe 2</p>
					</header>
					<p>
						<span>That olden glory which even on Athens’ fields proclaimed the renown</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Of a chariot-triumph; then in Adrastus’ Games at Sikyon-town</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Gave wreathed leaves of such old-time song as these of our own days are.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Nor yet at the national contests failed they to ride the curved car;</span>
						<br/>
						<span>But they joyed in contending with all the Hellenes, in spending on steeds their treasure.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>But unhonoured, unsung, is the man that spareth his might against others to measure.</span>
					</p>
				</section>
				<section id="isthmian-4-6">
					<header>
						<p>Epode 2</p>
					</header>
					<p>
						<span>Yea, even when champions in strife be contending,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">Till the end in uncertainty</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">Her face Queen Fortune veileth;</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">For triumph now giveth she</span>
						<br/>
						<span>And anon defeat; but at whiles in the ending</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">The craft of the weaker prevaileth</span>
						<br/>
						<span>To cast to the earth the stronger. Ye know of the prowess of Aias the blood-stained fame,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">How, when the night was now far spent,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>He cast himself on his own sword, thereby bringing reproach and abiding shame</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">On the sons of Hellenes that Troy ward went.</span>
					</p>
				</section>
				<section id="isthmian-4-7">
					<header>
						<p>Strophe 3</p>
					</header>
					<p>
						<span>But lo, he is honoured of Homer the wide world over, who set on high</span>
						<br/>
						<span>All knightly prowess of Aias; and his god-gifted poesy</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Hath taught the measure whereby all other bards must frame the lay:</span>
						<br/>
						<span>For a noble song passeth down the years with a voice that liveth for aye,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>And over the harvest-abounding earth, and across the sea for ever</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Goeth the sunbright shining of noble deeds, to be quenchèd never.</span>
					</p>
				</section>
				<section id="isthmian-4-8">
					<header>
						<p>Antistrophe 3</p>
					</header>
					<p>
						<span>May the Muses to us be gracious, that so we may kindle a beacon-light</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Of song for Melissus, a wreath that shall worthily crown the pankratian might</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Of the son of the House of Telesias; for he showeth in conflict’s toil</span>
						<br/>
						<span>The courage of roaring lions, and coupled therewith the fox’s guile</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Who lies on his back,<a href="endnotes.xhtml#note-27" id="noteref-27" epub:type="noteref">27</a> so holding at bay the eagle’s swoop down-rushing.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>So cunning and strength must alike be used for the adversary’s crushing.</span>
					</p>
				</section>
				<section id="isthmian-4-9">
					<header>
						<p>Epode 3</p>
					</header>
					<p>
						<span>For not by nature was this man dowered</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">With Orion’s giant height;</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">Mean was he to outward showing,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">But with iron-heavy might</span>
						<br/>
						<span>In the grapple his foe he overpowered.</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">So of old for Antaius’ o’erthrowing</span>
						<br/>
						<span>To his dwelling in Libya’s corn-land came a man low-statured, a hero who bore</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">A spirit unflinching in conflict-strain,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>A scion of Thebes whose wrestling-grip should for ever stay him from roofing o’er</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">With the skulls of strangers Poseidon’s fane,</span>
					</p>
				</section>
				<section id="isthmian-4-10">
					<header>
						<p>Strophe 4</p>
					</header>
					<p>
						<span>Even the son of Alkmena, who passed to Olympus after that he</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Had tracked all lands, and traversed the cliff-walled face of the surf-white sea,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Had slain the sea-rovers, and safe for voyagers made the sea’s highway.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>And now by the Aegis-bearer in glorious bliss he dwelleth for aye,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>As a friend is honoured of all the Immortals, with Hebe hath made affiance,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Is lord of a golden palace, is kinsman to Hera by spousal-alliance.</span>
					</p>
				</section>
				<section id="isthmian-4-11">
					<header>
						<p>Antistrophe 4</p>
					</header>
					<p>
						<span>For him above the Elektran Gate we burghers the feast prepare,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>And the crown-like ring of the altars newly-built will we set to him there,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>And our sacrifices will offer for those eight bronze-mailed heroes who died,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Whom Megara, Kreon’s daughter, bare, that mighty Hero’s bride⁠—</span>
						<br/>
						<span>They unto whom at the sun’s down-going the nightlong flame is uplifted,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>And with odorous reek its smoke is lashing the welkin, through cloudland drifted.</span>
					</p>
				</section>
				<section id="isthmian-4-12">
					<header>
						<p>Epode 4</p>
					</header>
					<p>
						<span>Then on the second day is holden</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">The struggle of athlete-might,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">The crown of the year’s games ended.</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">There with his brows made bright</span>
						<br/>
						<span>With leaves of the myrtle-wreath enfolden</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">Twin triumphs Melissus blended,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>When already among the boys he had won another by heeding diligently</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">The words of the wisely-counselling tongue</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Of the pilot trainer who steered his course: with Melissus Orseas’ name join I</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">As I shed on them grace of delightsome song.</span>
					</p>
				</section>
			</section>
			<section id="isthmian-5" epub:type="chapter">
				<header>
					<h3>
						<span epub:type="label">Isthmian</span>
						<span epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">V</span>
					</h3>
					<p epub:type="bridgehead">For Phylakidas of Aegina, son of Lampon, and brother of Pytheas (celebrated in the Fifth Nemean), on his victory in the Pankration, <abbr epub:type="se:era">BC</abbr> 476 (?).</p>
				</header>
				<section id="isthmian-5-1">
					<header>
						<p>Strophe 1</p>
					</header>
					<p>
						<span>Theia of many names, O mother of the Sun,<a href="endnotes.xhtml#note-28" id="noteref-28" epub:type="noteref">28</a></span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">Men set their stamp on gold for love of thee,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Of all things precious counting this the mightiest one;</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i4">Yea, and in rivalry,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Queen, for thy brightness on the sea do galleys clash in wars,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>And in the whirling fight are marvels wrought by battle-cars.</span>
					</p>
				</section>
				<section id="isthmian-5-2">
					<header>
						<p>Antistrophe 1</p>
					</header>
					<p>
						<span>He in the contests of the Games achieves renown</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">Desired of all, who hath won victory’s meed</span>
						<br/>
						<span>By hands that wreathed his head with many a crown,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i4">Or by his fleet foot’s speed.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>’Tis Heaven awards each prize of strength: two things alone there be</span>
						<br/>
						<span>That make life’s loveliest blossoms blow in wealth’s flower-spangled lea,</span>
					</p>
				</section>
				<section id="isthmian-5-3">
					<header>
						<p>Epode 1</p>
					</header>
					<p>
						<span>To have good hap and reputation fair.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Seek not to be as Zeus; all things are thine</span>
						<br/>
						<span>If to thee falls of these best gifts thy share;</span>
						<br/>
						<span>For mortal bounds must mortal men confine.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>But, O Phylakidas, for thee at Isthmus lies in store</span>
						<br/>
						<span>A twofold meed of fadeless fame, at Nemea for you twain,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>For thee and Pytheas, crowns pankratian. Oh, mine heart no more</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Rapture of song can taste, except the Aiakids swell the strain.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Led by the Graces I, by sons of Lampon summoned o’er,</span>
					</p>
				</section>
				<section id="isthmian-5-4">
					<header>
						<p>Strophe 2</p>
					</header>
					<p>
						<span>To this, the city of fair governance, came. If she</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">To the clear path of deeds that Gods inspire</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Hath turned her steps, grudge not the wine of minstrelsy,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i4">Her valour’s glory-hire.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Yea, for in days heroic her brave sons earned glory’s crown,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>And lyre and flute-notes manifold still peal out their renown</span>
					</p>
				</section>
				<section id="isthmian-5-5">
					<header>
						<p>Antistrophe 2</p>
					</header>
					<p>
						<span>Through years past numbering. By Zeus Kronion’s grace</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">A new theme Oineus’ mighty sons have found</span>
						<br/>
						<span>For bards inspired: Aetolians still with altar-blaze</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i4">Worship the world-renowned;</span>
						<br/>
						<span>And chariot-speeding Iolaus still is Thebe’s pride,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Of Argos Perseus, Leda’s sons Eurotas’ stream beside.</span>
					</p>
				</section>
				<section id="isthmian-5-6">
					<header>
						<p>Epode 2</p>
					</header>
					<p>
						<span>And still Oenone worships the renown</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Of Aiakus and his sons high-hearted, they</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Who in stern battle sacked the Trojans’ town</span>
						<br/>
						<span>First, when with Heracles they faced the fray,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Then, with the sons of Atreus:⁠—upward wing, O Muse, thy flight!</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Tell who were they before whom Kyknus fell, and Hector died.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Who smote the dauntless chief who led the Aethiop hosts to fight,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Memnon the brazen-mailed? And who, Kaïkus’ stream beside,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Met valiant Telephus, and with resistless spear did smite?</span>
					</p>
				</section>
				<section id="isthmian-5-7">
					<header>
						<p>Strophe 3</p>
					</header>
					<p>
						<span>Even they whose home my lips proclaim the glorious isle</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">Aegina!⁠—that tower builded long ago</span>
						<br/>
						<span>For heroism’s feet to scale her stately pile.</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i4">My tongue’s true-aiming bow</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Hath many a shaft whose flight shall sing their praise: yea, Aias’ state</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Can witness how her shipmen’s prowess saved from thraldom’s fate</span>
					</p>
				</section>
				<section id="isthmian-5-8">
					<header>
						<p>Antistrophe 3</p>
					</header>
					<p>
						<span>Salamis in that ruin-tempest heaven-sent,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">When slaughter’s hailstorm did on myriads fall⁠—</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Yet hush, O lips of mine, the vaunt irreverent!</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i4">Is not Zeus Lord of all?</span>
						<br/>
						<span>He ordereth this and that. These late-won honours gladly hail</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Sweet song that hymns the victor’s joy. Now, whoso hears the tale</span>
					</p>
				</section>
				<section id="isthmian-5-9">
					<header>
						<p>Epode 3</p>
					</header>
					<p>
						<span>Of this Kleonikus’ house, e’en let him dare</span>
						<br/>
						<span>The athlete-strife! Not dulled is yet the fame</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Of their long toils! Nought for the cost they care:</span>
						<br/>
						<span>No power hath this their fiery hopes to tame!</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Yea, also Pytheas do I praise, who schooled unerringly</span>
						<br/>
						<span>His brother’s hands to deal the blows whereby Phylakidas bare</span>
						<br/>
						<span>To earth the limbs of rivals⁠—ah, a cunning fighter he!</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Ho, take for him a crown, and bring the fleecy fillet fair!</span>
						<br/>
						<span>With song fresh-pinioned speed him on his path of victory!</span>
					</p>
				</section>
			</section>
			<section id="isthmian-6" epub:type="chapter">
				<header>
					<h3>
						<span epub:type="label">Isthmian</span>
						<span epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">VI</span>
					</h3>
					<p epub:type="bridgehead">For Phylakidas of Aegina, on his victory in the Pankration, <abbr epub:type="se:era">BC</abbr> 484 (?) or <abbr epub:type="se:era">BC</abbr> 480 (?).</p>
				</header>
				<section id="isthmian-6-1">
					<header>
						<p>Strophe 1</p>
					</header>
					<p>
						<span>As they do in a banquet of men when the revelry runneth high,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>So do we mingle a second bowl of the Song-queen’s strain.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Unto Tampon’s athlete-seed do we render honour thereby.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Our first was outpoured to thee, Zeus, in the day that saw us gain</span>
						<br/>
						<span>The crown of all crowns at Nemea; the second this day pour we</span>
						<br/>
						<span>To the Lord of the Isthmus and Nereus’ fifty Maids of the Sea</span>
						<br/>
						<span>For the House’s youngest scion Phylakidas’ victory.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Oh may we make ready a third for the Saviour Olympus’ Lord!<a href="endnotes.xhtml#note-29" id="noteref-29" epub:type="noteref">29</a></span>
						<br/>
						<span>So may a libation of honey-sweet songs on Aegina be poured!</span>
					</p>
				</section>
				<section id="isthmian-6-2">
					<header>
						<p>Antistrophe 1</p>
					</header>
					<p>
						<span>For if one of the sons of men who exults in the cost and the toil</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Attain to achievement that shall like a god-built tower stand,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>And with Heaven’s help plant the seed of renown in a fruitful soil,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>God-honoured he casteth his anchor on Fortune’s farthest strand.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Unto such desires to attain this son of Kleonymus prays</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Or ever he cometh with death or with hoar hairs face to face.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>And of Klotho enthroned on high this day I implore her grace,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Praying her and her sister Fates propitiously now to draw near</span>
						<br/>
						<span>To the heavenward-ringing petition of him that I hold so dear.</span>
					</p>
				</section>
				<section id="isthmian-6-3">
					<header>
						<p>Epode 1</p>
					</header>
					<p>
						<span>And you, O Aiakus’ sons, upon golden chariots mounted,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">I deem it a sacred ordinance laid most clearly on me,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Whensoe’er I set foot on your isle, to shower on you praise; for uncounted</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">Highways of five-score feet stretch farther than eye can see</span>
						<br/>
						<span>For your noble achievements: they pass to southward beyond Nile’s fountains,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>And away to the land lying north of where Boreas leaps from his mountains.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>No city there is so uncouth of speech, but hath heard the story</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Of the blest one, spouse of a Goddess, of hero Peleus’ glory,</span>
					</p>
				</section>
				<section id="isthmian-6-4">
					<header>
						<p>Strophe 2</p>
					</header>
					<p>
						<span>And hath heard of Aias Telamon’s scion, and Aias’ sire.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Him did Alkmena’s son, to requite Laomedon’s lie,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Lead with his warriors of Tiryns, an ally whose soul was afire</span>
						<br/>
						<span>For the joy of the harness of battle, in galleys led him to Troy,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>To the land of heroes’ travail. So Pergamus-city was laid</span>
						<br/>
						<span>In the dust by Heracles’ might. Thereafter, with Telamon’s aid,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>The tribes of the Meropes slew he, against him in battle arrayed,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>And the herdman huge as a mountain, Alkyoneus, whom he found</span>
						<br/>
						<span>In Phlegra, and spared not his bowstring’s thunder-clanging rebound.</span>
					</p>
				</section>
				<section id="isthmian-6-5">
					<header>
						<p>Antistrophe 2</p>
					</header>
					<p>
						<span>But when Heracles came to bid to the voyaging Aiakus’ son,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Him with his company feasting he found, and as there he stood</span>
						<br/>
						<span>In the lion-skin, Telamon called on the son of Amphitryon</span>
						<br/>
						<span>The first libation to pour of the cluster’s nectar-blood;</span>
						<br/>
						<span>And the chalice rough with the gold embossed with the word did he place</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Wine-brimming in Heracles’ hands. Thereupon did the hero raise</span>
						<br/>
						<span>His hands, the invincible hands, in prayer to the firmament’s space;</span>
						<br/>
						<span>And he lifted his voice: “If ever, O Zeus Allfather, thou</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Hast hearkened with willing soul unto prayer of mine, O now</span>
					</p>
				</section>
				<section id="isthmian-6-6">
					<header>
						<p>Epode 2</p>
					</header>
					<p>
						<span>“With heavenward-soaring prayers unto thee do I make my petition</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">To perfect in Eriboia’s womb for the man at my side</span>
						<br/>
						<span>A valiant son, who shall aye be my friend by Fate’s decision,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">One of thews invincibly stalwart, hard as the lion’s hide</span>
						<br/>
						<span>That at Nemea, first of my labours, I slew, this fell enfolding</span>
						<br/>
						<span>My shoulders, and may his courage be worthy his frame’s strong moulding!”</span>
						<br/>
						<span>He spake, and a mighty eagle the God sent down from his heaven,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Monarch of birds; and with rapture thrilled for the omen given</span>
					</p>
				</section>
				<section id="isthmian-6-7">
					<header>
						<p>Strophe 3</p>
					</header>
					<p>
						<span>Heracles lifted his voice, and he spake as speaketh a seer:</span>
						<br/>
						<span>“Lo, thou shalt have the son thou desirest, Telamon;</span>
						<br/>
						<span>And after the name of the bird that thou sawest but now appear,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>So shalt thou name him, Aias, a world-famed mighty one,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>In the battle-toils of thy people a warrior deadly strong.”</span>
						<br/>
						<span>So spake he, and sat him down. But for me it were all too long</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Of all their achievements to tell. I came, O Queen of Song,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>For Phylakidas, Pytheas, Euthymenes, the march to array</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Of the triumph-procession, and brief, after Argive wont, be the lay.</span>
					</p>
				</section>
				<section id="isthmian-6-8">
					<header>
						<p>Antistrophe 3</p>
					</header>
					<p>
						<span>In Isthmian pankration victories three did they win by their might,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>And from leaf-shadowed Nemea yet more triumphs, those glorious boys,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>And their mother’s brother. How fair a portion of song to the light</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Did they bring! And with brightest dews of refreshing did they rejoice</span>
						<br/>
						<span>The Clan of the Psalychidae; and now have they raised to renown</span>
						<br/>
						<span>By their prowess the House of Themistius; yea, and in this good town</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Do they dwell, whereon the Gods with loving eyes look down.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>And, honouring Hesiod’s words⁠—“Whatsoever he findeth to do,”</span>
						<br/>
						<span>That Lampon “doth with his might,” and exhorteth his sons thereto.</span>
					</p>
				</section>
				<section id="isthmian-6-9">
					<header>
						<p>Epode 3</p>
					</header>
					<p>
						<span>So he brings to his city glory, the weal of the whole state serving.</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">He is loved for his kindness to strangers: the golden mean alway</span>
						<br/>
						<span>In purpose, the golden mean in action he follows unswerving.</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">His tongue is at one with his thoughts. Amid athletes he is, thou canst say,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>As the Naxian stone that in grinding of bronze all other excelleth.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>I will give him to drink of Dirke’s taintless spring that upwelleth</span>
						<br/>
						<span>By the stately-rampired gates of the city of Kadmus, whose waters</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Were caused to leap to the light by Memory’s deep-zoned daughters.</span>
					</p>
				</section>
			</section>
			<section id="isthmian-7" epub:type="chapter">
				<header>
					<h3>
						<span epub:type="label">Isthmian</span>
						<span epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">VII</span>
					</h3>
					<p epub:type="bridgehead">For Strepsiades of Thebes, on his victory in the Pankration, <abbr epub:type="se:era">BC</abbr> 456 (?). The victor’s uncle had recently been killed in battle.</p>
				</header>
				<section id="isthmian-7-1">
					<header>
						<p>Strophe 1</p>
					</header>
					<p>
						<span>In which of the old-time glories that made thy land renowned</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Hath thy spirit, O happy Thebe, delighted most of all?</span>
						<br/>
						<span>When thou sawest the birth of the God of the tresses that toss unbound,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Dionysus, enthroned by Demeter to whom clashed cymbals call?</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Or when thou didst welcome the chief of the Gods at the midnight hour,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>What time he descended to earth in a golden-snowing shower,</span>
					</p>
				</section>
				<section id="isthmian-7-2">
					<header>
						<p>Antistrophe 1</p>
					</header>
					<p>
						<span>When he stood at Amphitryon’s portal, and went in unto the bride</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Of Amphitryon, whence sprang god-begotten Heracles?</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Was it when Teiresias’ counsels inspired were thy joy and thy pride?</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Was it when thou didst see Iolaus’ chariot-masteries,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Or the Sown Men’s tireless spears? Or when from thy fierce war-shout</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Thou sentest Adrastus fleeing, bereft of the battle-rout</span>
					</p>
				</section>
				<section id="isthmian-7-3">
					<header>
						<p>Epode 1</p>
					</header>
					<p>
						<span>Of his countless comrades, back unto Argos the war-steed land?</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Or when thou didst set the feet of the Dorian Spartans again</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Firm in the ancient home, and when by a warrior-band,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Even thy sons of the Aegeid House, was Amyklae ta’en</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Because they obeyed the Pythian oracle’s command?</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i4">But alas! it sleepeth, the olden glory,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i4">And mortals forget the heroic story,</span>
					</p>
				</section>
				<section id="isthmian-7-4">
					<header>
						<p>Strophe 2</p>
					</header>
					<p>
						<span>Save only that which attains unto poesy’s perfect flower</span>
						<br/>
						<span>By reason that it hath been wedded to far-ringing streams of song.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>For Strepsiades then lead forth the procession in this glad hour</span>
						<br/>
						<span>With strains sweet-rippling. He brings the pankratian meed of the strong</span>
						<br/>
						<span>From Isthmus. In strength is he wondrous, and goodly withal to behold;</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Nor his stature is shamed by his valour, his spirit aweless-bold.</span>
					</p>
				</section>
				<section id="isthmian-7-5">
					<header>
						<p>Antistrophe 2</p>
					</header>
					<p>
						<span>Glows on him a splendour breathed by the flower-tressed Muses’ breath.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>A share in his crown to his namesake mother’s brother he gave,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>For whom Ares the brazen-bucklered mingled the wine of death.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Yet a recompense of renown is laid up in store for the brave;</span>
						<br/>
						<span>For let him be assured⁠—whosoe’er, overgloomed by the cloud of war,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Beats back the hailstorm of blood from his dear land’s heart afar,</span>
					</p>
				</section>
				<section id="isthmian-7-6">
					<header>
						<p>Epode 2</p>
					</header>
					<p>
						<span>By hurling death through the ranks of the host of his fatherland’s foe⁠—</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Be assured that he maketh his nation’s glory to shine more bright,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Yea, whether he live, or whether the hero in death lie low.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>But thou, O scion of Diodotus, in that last fight</span>
						<br/>
						<span>With strong Meleager didst vie⁠—yea, as his did thy battle-fire glow!⁠—</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i4">And with Hector and Amphiaraus vying</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i4">Didst breathe out youth’s fair bloom in thy dying</span>
					</p>
				</section>
				<section id="isthmian-7-7">
					<header>
						<p>Strophe 3</p>
					</header>
					<p>
						<span>In the press of the battle, the forefront of fight, where of warriors our chief</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Bare up the weight of the struggle of war in hope’s despair.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Ah me! at the woeful tidings I suffered unspeakable grief!</span>
						<br/>
						<span>By the Earth-enfolder’s grace now calm after storm shines fair.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>With garlands enwreathing my locks will I sing this victory.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>O may not the triumph be marred by the high Gods’ jealousy,</span>
					</p>
				</section>
				<section id="isthmian-7-8">
					<header>
						<p>Antistrophe 3</p>
					</header>
					<p>
						<span>As onward I follow to taste the sweetness of this my day,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>And peacefully journey to eld and the bourne that Fate doth ordain</span>
						<br/>
						<span>For my life. For we all must die: alike are we passing away,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Though our fortune be diverse. How far soever one’s gaze may strain,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Too frail is man to attain to the heaven brazen-floored.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Even so did wingèd Pegasus fling his earthly lord,</span>
					</p>
				</section>
				<section id="isthmian-7-9">
					<header>
						<p>Epode 3</p>
					</header>
					<p>
						<span>When Bellerophon fain would have winged his flight to the mansions on high,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>And have entered the glorious conclave of Gods with Zeus throned there.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Bitter the end is of pleasure attained unlawfully.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>But to us, O Loxias, thou with thy glory of golden hair</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Ever blooming in youth, do thou with a gift of thy grace draw nigh,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i4">From Pytho’s contests on us bestowing</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i4">A garland of bright flowers lovely-blowing.</span>
					</p>
				</section>
			</section>
			<section id="isthmian-8" epub:type="chapter">
				<header>
					<h3>
						<span epub:type="label">Isthmian</span>
						<span epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">VIII</span>
					</h3>
					<p epub:type="bridgehead">For Kleandros of Aegina, on his victory in the boys’ Pankration, <abbr epub:type="se:era">BC</abbr> 478 (?). It was shortly after the battle of Plataea: the poet, while thankful for the liberation of Greece, is filled with sorrow for the traitorous part which his native Thebes has played in that war.</p>
				</header>
				<section id="isthmian-8-1">
					<header>
						<p>Strophe 1</p>
					</header>
					<p>
						<span>For Kleandros and his comrades, O ye youths, let some of you</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Go and stand before his father Telesarchus’ gleaming door,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>And wake the chant, the recompense for toils, his glorious due</span>
						<br/>
						<span>For the crowns that from the Isthmus and from Nemea he bore.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>What though I be stricken-hearted, to their praying have I hearkened,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>And on the golden Muse I call. From night of woes that darkened</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Around us are we rescued, and we may not brook bereaving</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Of triumph-crowns, nor over cureless evils linger grieving.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>But let us cheer the people with the sweetness of our song,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Though the pain have scarce departed; for the stone that hung so long</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Above our heads⁠—a very stone of Tantalus⁠—at last</span>
						<br/>
						<span>A God hath turned aside: the peril now is overpast,</span>
					</p>
				</section>
				<section id="isthmian-8-2">
					<header>
						<p>Strophe 2</p>
					</header>
					<p>
						<span>That intolerable curse unto Hellas! But the night</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Of terror hath departed, and the crushing load of care</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Is lifted. Yet ’tis better evermore to keep in sight</span>
						<br/>
						<span>The perils that be waiting in the path whereon we fare.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>For Time is dogging mortals’ steps, with treacherous feet on-stealing,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>And tangling all the ways of life. Yet even here is healing</span>
						<br/>
						<span>For such as have but freedom. Let us still to hope be clinging!</span>
						<br/>
						<span>In Thebe seven-gated nursed, the Graces’ flowers of singing</span>
						<br/>
						<span>I needs must give Aegina; for Asopus’ daughters twain</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Found favour in the sight of Zeus who over all doth reign.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>And one of these by lovely-flowered Dirke’s fair demesne</span>
						<br/>
						<span>He caused to dwell, to be the chariot-loving city’s queen.</span>
					</p>
				</section>
				<section id="isthmian-8-3">
					<header>
						<p>Strophe 3</p>
					</header>
					<p>
						<span>But thee unto Oenopia’s isle he bore, and couched with thee.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>And there unto the Thunder-crashing Father didst thou bear</span>
						<br/>
						<span>A godlike scion, Aiakus, of men most righteous he;</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Yea, even to the Gods in Heaven contention’s arbiter</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Was he. His hero-sons and children’s children war-delighting</span>
						<br/>
						<span>With peerless valour met the clanging bronze of warriors fighting;</span>
						<br/>
						<span>And self-controlled they ruled their spirit, even as wisdom taught them.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Now when the Gods in council met, of all this they bethought them,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>When Zeus with glory-girt Poseidon in contention strove</span>
						<br/>
						<span>For Thetis’ hand; for either God was captive of her love,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>And fain would win the fairest; but impossible it was</span>
						<br/>
						<span>That Heaven’s eternal counsels should bring such a thing to pass</span>
					</p>
				</section>
				<section id="isthmian-8-4">
					<header>
						<p>Strophe 4</p>
					</header>
					<p>
						<span>Whence once they heard the oracle that spake them Fate’s decree.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>For Themis wise in counsel in the Gods’ assembly told</span>
						<br/>
						<span>How that Destiny ordained it that the Lady of the Sea</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Should bear a son more mighty than his father, who should hold</span>
						<br/>
						<span>In his hand another sceptre more resistless than the levin</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Or the trident, were she wedded with any lord of Heaven:⁠—</span>
						<br/>
						<span>“Cease to contend! In marriage to a mortal be she given.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Like Ares’ hands her son’s shall be where battle’s strife is striven,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>His speed of foot as lightning-flash;⁠—but she shall see him die</span>
						<br/>
						<span>In war! I give my counsel that this honour from on high</span>
						<br/>
						<span>To Peleus son of Aiakus be granted. All attest</span>
						<br/>
						<span>That dweller in Iolkos’ plain of mortals holiest.</span>
					</p>
				</section>
				<section id="isthmian-8-5">
					<header>
						<p>Strophe 5</p>
					</header>
					<p>
						<span>“Then let our message straight go forth to Cheiron’s cave divine,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Nor once again let Nereus’ daughter set the leaves of strife</span>
						<br/>
						<span>In hands of Gods; but when the midmonth orbèd moonbeams shine</span>
						<br/>
						<span>At eventide, then let her loose her maiden zone, the wife</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Most lovely of a hero.” So the Goddess spake, preventing</span>
						<br/>
						<span>The ruin-day of Kronos’ sons. And they in one consenting</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Bent their immortal brows. Nor did her counsel’s fruitage wither;</span>
						<br/>
						<span>For told it is that these two Kings in friendship came together</span>
						<br/>
						<span>To Thetis’ bridal. And the lips of bards have published far</span>
						<br/>
						<span>To them that saw it not the mighty prowess in the war</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Of young Achilles, how he poured a dusky-crimson stain,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>The life-blood of king Telephus, on Mysia’s vine-clad plain,</span>
					</p>
				</section>
				<section id="isthmian-8-6">
					<header>
						<p>Strophe 6</p>
					</header>
					<p>
						<span>And bridge-like paved the Atreids’ safe return across the sea,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>And rescued Helen; for he hewed asunder with his spear</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Troy’s sinews, them who strove to stay the slaughter-work that he</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Wrought in that battle-harried plain, yea, stayed the proud career</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Of Memnon’s might, of Hector and the chiefs in strength excelling</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Of Troy, to whom Achilles showed to Queen Persephone’s dwelling</span>
						<br/>
						<span>The path⁠—the Aiakids’ champion he!⁠—and glory so was bringing</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Unto Aegina and his race. Yea, lips immortal singing</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Wailed o’er him dead, when Helicon s Maids, a many-voicèd choir,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Stood by his death-rites, pouring forth their dirge around the pyre.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Ay, so the Immortals willed that heroism, even in death,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Should be a theme for Goddesses to hymn with praising breath.</span>
					</p>
				</section>
				<section id="isthmian-8-7">
					<header>
						<p>Strophe 7</p>
					</header>
					<p>
						<span>Yea, to this day that law of honour holds: the Muses’ car</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Speeds on to sound his glory forth who won the gauntlet-fight</span>
						<br/>
						<span>In Isthmus’ glade, even Nikokles.<a href="endnotes.xhtml#note-30" id="noteref-30" epub:type="noteref">30</a> Oh, peal his praise afar</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Who won the Dorian parsley-crown, who vanquished by his might,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>He too,<a href="endnotes.xhtml#note-31" id="noteref-31" epub:type="noteref">31</a> all rivals, hurled them back with leap as of a lion.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Nor him dishonoureth now his father’s noble brother’s scion.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Twine then, ye comrades of the victor, twine the tender greenness</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Of myrtle for his brows! Alkathous’ contest hailed his keenness</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Of courage with fair fortune. Yea, with welcoming acclaim</span>
						<br/>
						<span>The sons of Epidaurus met him. Meet it is the fame</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Of such be sung by good men; for he hid not from the light,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>As in oblivion’s pit, the splendour of his youthful might.</span>
					</p>
				</section>
			</section>
		</section>
	</body>
</html>
