<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-GB">
	<head>
		<title>The Pythian Odes</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:non-fiction">
		<section id="the-pythian-odes" epub:type="volume">
			<h2 epub:type="title">The Pythian Odes</h2>
			<article id="pythian-1" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<header>
					<h3 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">I</h3>
					<p epub:type="bridgehead">For Hiero, ruler of Syracuse, on his victory in the chariot-race, 470 <abbr epub:type="se:era">BC</abbr>, in which he was proclaimed as “of Etna,” a new city founded by him near <abbr>Mt.</abbr> Etna. In 480 <abbr epub:type="se:era">BC</abbr> he had defeated the Carthaginian invaders in the battle of Himera, and in 474 <abbr epub:type="se:era">BC</abbr>, the Etruscans in a sea-fight of Cumae. In <abbr epub:type="se:era">BC</abbr> 475 there was a great eruption of <abbr>Mt.</abbr> Etna. All these events are referred to in this Ode.</p>
				</header>
				<section id="pythian-1-1">
					<header>
						<p>Strophe 1</p>
					</header>
					<p>
						<span>O golden Lyre, who art Phoebus’ treasure</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">Which he shares with the dusk-haired Song-queens aye,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>The light feet hear thee beating the measure</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">As the revellers marshal their dance-array.</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">O Lyre, thy signals the singers obey</span>
						<br/>
						<span>When in preludes of choral song low-dreaming</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">O’er thy strings quick-throbbing the harmonies glide.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Thou quenchest the thunderbolt’s self red-gleaming</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Javelined with flame-jets aye outstreaming.</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">On the sceptre of Zeus the slumber-tide</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">O’er his eagle ripples, on either side</span>
					</p>
				</section>
				<section id="pythian-1-2">
					<header>
						<p>Antistrophe 1</p>
					</header>
					<p>
						<span>Of the king of birds as his pinions are trailing:</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">O’er his bowing head doth a dark mist flow</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Sweet-sealing his eyes; ’neath sleep’s prevailing</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">His back heaves wave-like soft and slow,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">Spell-bound by thy melodies pulsing low.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Yea, the soul of the wild War-god lies sleeping</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">Hushed, warm-cradled in slumber’s nest,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>And his keen spear slips from his strong hand’s keeping.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Gods’ hearts are thy shafts in enchantment steeping</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">By the inspiration of Phoebus to rest</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">Lulled, and by the deep-bosomed Muses’ behest.</span>
					</p>
				</section>
				<section id="pythian-1-3">
					<header>
						<p>Epode 1</p>
					</header>
					<p>
						<span>But creatures beloved not of Zeus, things haunting</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">Earth’s crypts, and the sea’s gulfs storm-uprolled,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Flee panic-struck, hearing the Pierids chanting,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">As was Typhon, whom Tartarus’ dread depths hold,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>The hundred-headed, the hate undying</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">Of the Gods, in Cilician caverns of old</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Nursed. Sicily now and her sea-defying</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Cliffs above Kyme are heavily lying</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">On his shag-haired breast, and the cloud-kissing height</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">Of a crag-column crusheth him⁠—Etna, white</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">Through the livelong year with snows that bite</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i4">With ice-fangs cold.</span>
					</p>
				</section>
				<section id="pythian-1-4">
					<header>
						<p>Strophe 2</p>
					</header>
					<p>
						<span>Upbelched from his deep-hidden crypts is a fountain</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">Of pure white fire none dare draw nigh.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>In the day from the lava-flood rifting the mountain</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">Is the lurid smoke uptossed to the sky;</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">In the darkness a red-rolling flame flares high</span>
						<br/>
						<span>As it sweepeth the rocks with thunderous crashing</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">To the sea that afar below doth lie.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>’Tis the monster upspurting through anguish-gnashing</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Jaws that fire-fountain fearfully flashing⁠—</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">A wondrous portent appalling the eye,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">A marvel to hear when men pass by;</span>
					</p>
				</section>
				<section id="pythian-1-5">
					<header>
						<p>Antistrophe 2</p>
					</header>
					<p>
						<span>Such horror is prisoned through years unending</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">’Neath the heights dark-leaved in the earth’s embrace,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>While his back is furrowed with gory rending</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">By the flints of his restless resting-place!</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">O Zeus, may we in thy sight find grace</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Who dost make this mountain thine habitation,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">This rich land’s forefront, whose namesake-town</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Her founder ennobled, what time his nation</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Was “of Etna” published by proclamation</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">Of the Pythian herald who spake the renown</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">Of Hiero’s car-won victory-crown.</span>
					</p>
				</section>
				<section id="pythian-1-6">
					<header>
						<p>Epode 2</p>
					</header>
					<p>
						<span>As seafarers hail as the first boon of Heaven</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">That their sails by a fair-speeding wind be fanned</span>
						<br/>
						<span>When the anchor is weighed, as an earnest given</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">Of yet fairer return to the home-land’s strand,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>So reason enkindleth the expectation</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">That with this fair fortune linked hand in hand</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Shall the fame be of this thy new creation</span>
						<br/>
						<span>For athletes and horses and glad celebration</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">Of her name by the singers. O Lycian King</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">And Delian, who lovest Castaly’s spring,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">Of thy goodwill vouchsafe it, and stablish the thing</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i4">For this hero-land.</span>
					</p>
				</section>
				<section id="pythian-1-7">
					<header>
						<p>Strophe 3</p>
					</header>
					<p>
						<span>’Tis the Gods that ope all paths unto mortals</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">Whereby unto excellence toilers attain;</span>
						<br/>
						<span>For poesy’s, prowess’s, eloquence’ portals</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">They unbar. Albeit to praise I am fain</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">This hero, I trust I shall hurl not in vain</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Wide of the lists my javelin, winging</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">From the hand that hath poised it its quivering flight,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Beyond all rivals my shaft far-flinging.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>May the days through his life-tide be alway bringing</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">Wealth, bliss, in a course ever steered aright,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">With oblivion of fortune’s past despite.</span>
					</p>
				</section>
				<section id="pythian-1-8">
					<header>
						<p>Antistrophe 3</p>
					</header>
					<p>
						<span>He shall surely recall the old wars’ story⁠—</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">He whose steadfast soul was their battle-stay⁠—</span>
						<br/>
						<span>When his folk at the Gods’ hands reaped for them glory</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">Such as none other Hellenes have borne away</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">From a stricken field, nor such goodly prey.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>For, a new Philoktetes, with help all-availing</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">Battleward fared he, when came to implore</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Humbly his friendship the proud ones, quailing</span>
						<br/>
						<span>From foes over-strong⁠—as the heroes went sailing</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">To Lemnos, to bring him to Troyland’s shore</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">Whom the wound snake-venomed tormented sore,</span>
					</p>
				</section>
				<section id="pythian-1-9">
					<header>
						<p>Epode 3</p>
					</header>
					<p>
						<span>The archer, Poias’ son, and he wended</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">Troyward, though sickness-worn was his frame,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>And he ravaged the city of Priam, and ended</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">The Danaans’ toil; for of Fate this came.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>So by Hiero’s side may a God go guiding</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">His steps, as in years past ever the same,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>The desire of his heart in its season providing.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>By Deinomenes’<a href="endnotes.xhtml#note-16" id="noteref-16" epub:type="noteref">16</a> side, O my Muse, abiding</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">Chant thou the meed by the chariot won</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">Of the father whose triumph is joy for the son.</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">This king, then, whose reign is in Etna begun,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i4">Sing we his fame,</span>
					</p>
				</section>
				<section id="pythian-1-10">
					<header>
						<p>Strophe 4</p>
					</header>
					<p>
						<span>For whom, with freedom on God’s rock grounded,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">The statutes of Hyllus<a href="endnotes.xhtml#note-17" id="noteref-17" epub:type="noteref">17</a> pledged to maintain,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>That city hath been by Hiero founded;</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">For the sons of Pamphylus are ever fain⁠—</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">Yea, so is the line of the Herakleid strain</span>
						<br/>
						<span>’Neath the beetling crags of Taÿgetus dwelling⁠—</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">By Aegimius’ Dorian laws to abide.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>They gat them Amyklae, and prospered past telling</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Who from Pindus down-swooping in glory excelling</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">By the Tyndarids dwelt, who on white steeds ride,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">And their spear-fame as flower-studded meads blossomed wide.</span>
					</p>
				</section>
				<section id="pythian-1-11">
					<header>
						<p>Antistrophe 4</p>
					</header>
					<p>
						<span>Zeus All-accomplisher, grant that never</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">May the tale of the fortunes of burgher and king</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Be worser than now; may they prosper ever</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">Where Amenas’ waters are murmuring!</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">By thy grace may the old chief’s counsels bring</span>
						<br/>
						<span>To his son and his folk, with all honour, fruition</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">In their borders ever of concord and peace.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>May the war-cry of Tuscan no more nor Phoenician</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Be heard on our shores since battle’s decision</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">By Cumae brought woe for lost ships upon these</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">Who in insolence claimed to be lords of the seas;</span>
					</p>
				</section>
				<section id="pythian-1-12">
					<header>
						<p>Epode 4</p>
					</header>
					<p>
						<span>When the captain of Sicily’s fleet on-leading</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">The might of Syracuse, hurled to the sea</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Their warrior youths from their ships light-speeding,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">And set you thereby, ye Hellenes, free</span>
						<br/>
						<span>From thraldom’s yoke hanging heavily o’er ye.</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">Yea, Athens and Sparta shall guerdon me</span>
						<br/>
						<span>With thanks for my Salamis-lay, for the story</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Of the battle before Kithairon,<a href="endnotes.xhtml#note-18" id="noteref-18" epub:type="noteref">18</a> the glory</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">Won when the Medes of the curved bow fell:</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">And by Himera’s bank shall the song-flood swell</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2" id="pythian-1-line-135">To Deinomenes’ sons’ battle-prowess, and tell</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i4">Of their victory.</span>
					</p>
				</section>
				<section id="pythian-1-13">
					<header>
						<p>Strophe 5</p>
					</header>
					<p>
						<span>If in season due be thy speech, if blended</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">Into close-knit order thy thoughts be, as when</span>
						<br/>
						<span>A weaver upgathers his threads, attended</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">Shall thy words be with scantier cavil of men.</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">For if speech be tedious and long-drawn, then</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Thine hearers’ eager expectancy dieth.</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">And when burghers the praise of their fellows hear,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>On their hearts a weight of jealousy lieth.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Yet better is envy than pity, which sigheth</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">Over failure. In justice thy folk do thou steer,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">And in truth’s forge fashion thy tongue’s keen spear.</span>
					</p>
				</section>
				<section id="pythian-1-14">
					<header>
						<p>Antistrophe 5</p>
					</header>
					<p>
						<span>How light soe’er be the word that hath flitted</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">From thy lips, it is weighty, as coming from thee.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>To thy keeping a nation’s weal is committed:</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">Of thy deeds, good or ill, many watchers there be.</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">Be thy spirit a flower of chivalry.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>If thou wilt that report true-royal declare thee,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">No niggard be thou: like a wise timoneer</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Thy sails spread wide, that the breeze may bear thee</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Onward. Let time-serving guile not ensnare thee</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">By flattery, friend! Nought save the sincere</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">Praise that, when mortals are no more here,</span>
					</p>
				</section>
				<section id="pythian-1-15">
					<header>
						<p>Epode 5</p>
					</header>
					<p>
						<span>Lives on after death, to the world revealeth</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">What their true life was whose days are sped,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>And in chronicles shines and in lays outpealeth.</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">Blooms Croesus’ kindness with petals unshed;</span>
						<br/>
						<span>But Phalaris, ruthlessly joying in rending</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">Men’s lives from the tortured in brass glowing red,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>He is compassed with infamy’s hate unending,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Nor lutes nor young voices in harmony blending</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">In the hall of the casters his name shall greet.</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">Best of all is fair fortune; yet fame is sweet.</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">Who wins both, life’s chief crowns all meet</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i4">To engarland his head.</span>
					</p>
				</section>
			</article>
			<article id="pythian-2" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<header>
					<h3 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">II</h3>
					<p epub:type="bridgehead">For Hiero of Syracuse, on his victory in a chariot-race, not at Pytho, but at Thebes, <abbr epub:type="se:era">BC</abbr> 475 (?).</p>
				</header>
				<section id="pythian-2-1">
					<header>
						<p>Strophe 1</p>
					</header>
					<p>
						<span>O Syracuse, city in greatness excelling,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">Precinct of Ares through gulfs of war</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Who plungeth, O nurse of the warrior and steed</span>
						<br/>
						<span>That in clash of the steel of battle-weed</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Exult, from radiant Thebes do I speed</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Bearing a song of the great race, telling</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">Of the swift earth-shaking four-horsed car,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>The race wherein Hiero triumphward riding</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">Flashed down the course with his glorious team,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>And crowned with garlands that glowed far-seen</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Ortygia, the haunt of the River-queen</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Artemis⁠—aided of her, I ween,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>His hands as with spells of enchantment were guiding</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">Those steeds with a bridle of rainbow-gleam;</span>
					</p>
				</section>
				<section id="pythian-2-2">
					<header>
						<p>Antistrophe 1</p>
					</header>
					<p>
						<span>For she, the arrow-triumphant Maiden,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">And Hermes the Ruler of Contests, bring⁠—</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Yea, the gifts of the Gods’ linked hands they are⁠—</span>
						<br/>
						<span>These harness-adornings that glitter afar</span>
						<br/>
						<span>When he yokes strong steeds to his shining car</span>
						<br/>
						<span>And its wheels rein-piloted, victory-laden,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">Invoking the wide-ruling Trident-king.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>The prowess-guerdon of song sweet-ringing</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">From the lips of many a bard shall swell</span>
						<br/>
						<span>To the feet of lords that o’er far lands reign;</span>
						<br/>
						<span>As the Cyprian bards in triumphant strain</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Chant Kinyras’ praises once and again,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Aphrodite’s priestly minion singing</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">Whom Apollo the golden-haired loved well;</span>
					</p>
				</section>
				<section id="pythian-2-3">
					<header>
						<p>Epode 1</p>
					</header>
					<p>
						<span>For their gratitude’s praise for his kindness is gushing</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">From the hearts in loving reverence bowed.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>O Deinomenes’ son, the Lokrian maid<a href="endnotes.xhtml#note-19" id="noteref-19" epub:type="noteref">19</a></span>
						<br/>
						<span>In the far west sings at her door unafraid</span>
						<br/>
						<span>The delivering might of thine arm, that stayed</span>
						<br/>
						<span>War’s march of afflictions spirit-crushing,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">That her eyes no longer are terror-cowed.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>In old-time legend it stands recorded</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">That Ixion, the while on the fire-winged wheel</span>
						<br/>
						<span>By the sentence of Gods he is endlessly whirled,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Ever shrieketh his warning, a cry that is hurled</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Unto men’s ears up from the underworld⁠—</span>
						<br/>
						<span>“Be the kindness of thy benefactors rewarded</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">With all the love that thine heart can reveal!”</span>
					</p>
				</section>
				<section id="pythian-2-4">
					<header>
						<p>Strophe 2</p>
					</header>
					<p>
						<span>That lesson he learned in uttermost measure;</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">For, though he received a life of bliss</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Mid the Children of Kronos, the gracious-souled,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>He contented him not with its joys untold,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>But for Hera he lusted frenzy-bold,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Of Zeus’s couch the inviolate treasure;</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">For presumption drave him on into this</span>
						<br/>
						<span>His overweening infatuation.</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">But swiftly he reaped meet harvest of sin</span>
						<br/>
						<span>To suffer of all hell’s torments the worst:</span>
						<br/>
						<span>For his twofold transgression earned the Accurst</span>
						<br/>
						<span>That vengeance⁠—the one, that he was the first</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Who stained mankind with contamination</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">Of the treacherous spilling of blood of kin;</span>
					</p>
				</section>
				<section id="pythian-2-5">
					<header>
						<p>Antistrophe 2</p>
					</header>
					<p>
						<span>The other, that in the recesses most holy</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">Of the bride-bower of Zeus did he make essay</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Of the Queen of Heaven! Meet is it to know</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Our mortality’s limits, meet to forego</span>
						<br/>
						<span>The lawless loves that their victim throw</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Into gulfs of destruction. Such was his folly;</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">For with nought but a cloud it was that he lay,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Unknowing all, to his own confusion</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">Lured on by a sweetly-beckoning lie;</span>
						<br/>
						<span>For the cloud-wrought image the semblance bare</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Of Kronos’ Child, Heaven’s fairest fair;</span>
						<br/>
						<span>For the hands of Zeus had fashioned the snare,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>The beautiful bane, for his soul’s delusion.</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">So he compassed his own dire doom thereby,</span>
					</p>
				</section>
				<section id="pythian-2-6">
					<header>
						<p>Epode 2</p>
					</header>
					<p>
						<span>Outstretched on the wheel’s arms crucifying,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">Tangled in bonds whence escape is none,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Shrieking that warning the whole world o’er.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>And his cloud-mate, unblessed of the Graces, bore</span>
						<br/>
						<span>A monstrous child⁠—such dam never more</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Nor such offspring shall be, ’neath a black curse lying</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">Of menfolk, of godfolk⁠—a thing to shun!</span>
						<br/>
						<span>And the cloud-mother reared that evil abortion</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">And named Kentaurus. By Pelion’s foot</span>
						<br/>
						<span>In Magnesia he mated with many a mare;</span>
						<br/>
						<span>And a horde of monsters was born of them there</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Wondrous to see, for the likeness they bare</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Of either parent; the upper portion</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">As man was shapen, the nether as brute.</span>
					</p>
				</section>
				<section id="pythian-2-7">
					<header>
						<p>Strophe 3</p>
					</header>
					<p>
						<span>What purpose soever God conceiveth</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">He accomplisheth; none his intent may defy⁠—</span>
						<br/>
						<span>God, who o’ertaketh the eagle’s wing,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Who outstrippeth the dolphin, o’er waves though it spring,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>And the pride of man to the dust can bring,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>While unto the lowly one glory he giveth</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">That waxeth not old as the years fleet by.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>But for me is it well that I lack not discretion</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">From slander’s viper-fangs to refrain.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Ay, venomous-tongued Archilochus’ fate</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Have I known from of old, and his low estate</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Who with rancorous speech fed fat his hate.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Of all things that Fortune can give in possession</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">Riches with wisdom are best to attain.</span>
					</p>
				</section>
				<section id="pythian-2-8">
					<header>
						<p>Antistrophe 3</p>
					</header>
					<p>
						<span>These blessings be thine, may all see plainly;</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">And this thou showest, O liberal-souled,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>O princely ruler of many a street</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Fair-circled with towers where thy squadrons meet;</span>
						<br/>
						<span>And such riches and honour thy weal complete</span>
						<br/>
						<span>That in fantasy’s folly he striveth vainly</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">Who saith that any surpassed thee of old</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Among Hellene lords that be famed in story.</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">On the prow of my galley with flowers hung round</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Will I take my stand as the praises I sing</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Of thy prowess. Young hearts win strengthening</span>
						<br/>
						<span>From courage when trumpets for onset ring.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Yea, thou, I proclaim it, hast won thee glory</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">Therefrom, a glory that knows no bound,</span>
					</p>
				</section>
				<section id="pythian-2-9">
					<header>
						<p>Epode 3</p>
					</header>
					<p>
						<span>Now warring mid horsemen battleward racing,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">And now mid warriors afoot that fight.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>And thy wisdom now when thy locks be grey</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Is of all gainsaying unperilled⁠—O yea,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>It giveth me fullest assurance aye</span>
						<br/>
						<span>For extolling thy name with manifold praising.</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">All hail! This song o’er the sea-foam white</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Like Tyrian merchandise lo, I have brought thee.</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">Let thine eyes then smile on the Kastor-strain</span>
						<br/>
						<span>That my fingers from chords Aeolian drew:</span>
						<br/>
						<span>O greet it thou with the honour due</span>
						<br/>
						<span>To the seven-stringed lute. To thyself be true,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>To the royal wisdom the years have taught thee.</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">’Tis from children alone that the ape doth gain</span>
					</p>
				</section>
				<section id="pythian-2-10">
					<header>
						<p>Strophe 4</p>
					</header>
					<p>
						<span>The praise of beauty, is beauteous ever!</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">Rhadamanthus is homed in the Isles of the Blest,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>For the fruit of his soul was uncankered of guile:</span>
						<br/>
						<span>No pleasure he hath in the treacherous wile</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Of the whisperer working by calumnies vile.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>The secret speakings of slander never</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">Can be openly fought and for ever repressed.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>There is nothing of <em>man</em> in them⁠—nay, ’tis the slinking</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">Spirit of foxes they show; and yet</span>
						<br/>
						<span>From his cunning what gain doth the sly fox reap?</span>
						<br/>
						<span>As for me⁠—while the rest of the net-tackle deep</span>
						<br/>
						<span>In the briny darkness doth toilsomely sweep</span>
						<br/>
						<span>The sea-floor⁠—I, like the float unsinking</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">Am riding the waves high over the net.</span>
					</p>
				</section>
				<section id="pythian-2-11">
					<header>
						<p>Antistrophe 4</p>
					</header>
					<p>
						<span>In a city of honest men unavailing</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">Is the trickster’s babble, yet still he essays,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Fawning on all men, the toils to twine</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Of his subtlety. Never his vaunt shall be mine⁠—</span>
						<br/>
						<span>“<em>To a friend he I friend, to a foe malign!</em></span>
						<br/>
						<span>
							<em>As a wolf will I covertly track him, assailing</em>
						</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2"><em>This side and that side, by crooked ways.</em>”</span>
						<br/>
						<span>In what state soever a people be dwelling,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">’Tis the man of straightforward speech alway</span>
						<br/>
						<span>That unto the foremost place attains;</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Whether it be where a despot reigns,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Or where the rabble hot-headed strains</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Against use and wont, or where sages excelling</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">In wisdom the helm of the commonweal sway.</span>
					</p>
				</section>
				<section id="pythian-2-12">
					<header>
						<p>Epode 4</p>
					</header>
					<p>
						<span>Strive not against God, who exalts at his pleasure</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">Now one, now setteth another on high.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Yet doth not even His will seem right</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Unto envious ones, but they strain over-tight</span>
						<br/>
						<span>The line, and their own hearts so do they smite</span>
						<br/>
						<span>With a wound whose bitterness none may measure,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">Ere the prize be gained for the which they sigh.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Nay, better it is that a man bear lightly</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">The yoke of Fate on his neck that lies.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>But he makes for his feet a perilous road</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Who backward lashes against the goad.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>But on me be this fair fortune bestowed,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>To dwell among them which walk uprightly,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">And to be well-pleasing in good men’s eyes.</span>
					</p>
				</section>
			</article>
			<article id="pythian-3" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<header>
					<h3 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">III</h3>
					<p epub:type="bridgehead">For Hiero of Syracuse, on victories won by his racehorse, Pherenikus, in 482 and 478 <abbr epub:type="se:era">BC</abbr>. Probable date of Ode, 474, when Hiero was suffering from the disease of which he died in 467.</p>
				</header>
				<section id="pythian-3-1">
					<header>
						<p>Strophe 1</p>
					</header>
					<p>
						<span>I were fain⁠—if my tongue might breathe the prayer</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">Which on all lips trembles⁠—that Philyra’s son,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>That yet alive old Cheiron were</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">Who perished from earth, ah, long agone,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Even heaven-born Kronos’ seed, who of yore</span>
						<br/>
						<span>A sceptre of wide dominion bore⁠—</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">That now in the glens of Pelion</span>
						<br/>
						<span>That man-brute reigned in the woods once more</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Who was gracious-hearted to men when of old</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">He dwelt in the shadowy forest-land</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Where he fostered Asklepius kindly-souled,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">The lord of leechcraft, whose healing hand</span>
						<br/>
						<span>From the limbs of the stricken banished pain</span>
						<br/>
						<span>With salves by the which each malady’s bane</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">From their frames was banned.</span>
					</p>
				</section>
				<section id="pythian-3-2">
					<header>
						<p>Antistrophe 1</p>
					</header>
					<p>
						<span>The daughter of Phlegyas, lord of the car,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">Not yet with help of the Travail-queen</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Had borne that Healer renowned afar,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">Ere by Artemis’ golden arrows keen</span>
						<br/>
						<span>In her bride-bower stricken to death she lay,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>And trod the unreturning way</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">Unto Hades’ halls; for Apollo had seen</span>
						<br/>
						<span>The transgression that slew his love in a day.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>For the wrath of the Sons of Zeus not in vain</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">Burns. In her folly she dared think scorn</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Of his anger: unknown to her sire had she ta’en</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">To her arms a human lover, forsworn</span>
						<br/>
						<span>To her bridal troth, to her plighted word,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>To the love of Apollo the Archer-lord</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i4">Of the hair unshorn,</span>
					</p>
				</section>
				<section id="pythian-3-3">
					<header>
						<p>Epode 1</p>
					</header>
					<p>
						<span>Though she bare ’neath her zone a God’s pure seed,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">Yet the marriage-feast’s coming she would not abide;</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Not she of the full-voiced song took heed,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">Such song as the young girl-mates of the bride</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">Merrily chant in the eventide.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>But she longed for a love that was otherwhere</span>
						<br/>
						<span>With the passion that oft is the soul’s death-snare.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>For a people foolish beyond compare</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Is found among mortals, who scorn things near,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">And gaze upon things that be far away,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">And chase an ever-elusive prey</span>
						<br/>
						<span>With hopes whose fulfilment shall never appear.</span>
					</p>
				</section>
				<section id="pythian-3-4">
					<header>
						<p>Strophe 2</p>
					</header>
					<p>
						<span>Even with such overmastering might</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">Did unbridled desire o’er the spirit sweep</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Of Koronis in queenly vesture dight,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">That she dared in the unblest couch to sleep</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Of a stranger faring from Arcady.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>But she ’scaped not the all-beholding eye</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">Of the God⁠—albeit where myriad sheep</span>
						<br/>
						<span>To his altar at Pytho be led to die</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Was the Lord of the Temple then⁠—for their lust</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">By the all-divining mind was descried.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>To his soul’s inner vision did Phoebus trust</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">As it were to a seer enthroned at his side.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>He knows not delusion, whom neither man</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Nor God by thought or by action can</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i4">Deceive or misguide.</span>
					</p>
				</section>
				<section id="pythian-3-5">
					<header>
						<p>Antistrophe 2</p>
					</header>
					<p>
						<span>So when of her harlotry Phoebus was ware</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">With the stranger Ischys Eilatus’ son,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>And her godless guile in his sight lay bare,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">Then sent he against that faithless one</span>
						<br/>
						<span>His sister Artemis rushing with might</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Of a Goddess whose arrows resistlessly smite</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">Unto Lakereia, by whose walls shine</span>
						<br/>
						<span>The mere Boebeïs’ waters bright,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Whereby did the woman unwedded abide</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">Whom her evil genius misled to the doom</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Which destroyed her; and many a neighbour died</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">With her, by her sin dragged down to the tomb,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>As when on a mountain the fire that hath leapt</span>
						<br/>
						<span>From one spark over a forest hath swept,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i4">And doth wholly consume.</span>
					</p>
				</section>
				<section id="pythian-3-6">
					<header>
						<p>Epode 2</p>
					</header>
					<p>
						<span>But now when her kinsmen had laid the maid</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">In the midst of the pinewood walls of the pyre,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>And when round about her upleaping played</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">The splendour-light of the Lord of Fire,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">Spake Apollo: “I will not by death so dire</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Endure that mine own son also should die</span>
						<br/>
						<span>In the flames wherein doth his mother lie!”</span>
						<br/>
						<span>He spake, and at one stride stood thereby,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">And he caught up the child from the corse, and sprang</span>
						<br/>
						<span>The flames asunder. That babe he brought</span>
						<br/>
						<span>To Magnesia’s Centaur, by him to be taught</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">To heal each mortal malady’s pang.</span>
					</p>
				</section>
				<section id="pythian-3-7">
					<header>
						<p>Strophe 3</p>
					</header>
					<p>
						<span>And so what mortals soever sought</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">Unto him of the earth’s afflicted ones,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Or with sores by nature’s corruption wrought,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">Or with limbs deep-gashed by the gleaming bronze,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Or the stone hurled far from the whirling sling,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Or through feverous summers languishing,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">Or whom winter had cramped in sinews and bones,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>He delivered them all, that leechcraft-king,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>And loosed from their diverse infirmities</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">Or by spells with magic’s nepenthe rife;</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Or a pain-lulling draught would he pour for these,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">Or with salves that requickened the fainting life</span>
						<br/>
						<span>The limbs of those would he swathe around,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Or for cureless sores was a remedy found</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i4">In the merciful knife.</span>
					</p>
				</section>
				<section id="pythian-3-8">
					<header>
						<p>Antistrophe 3</p>
					</header>
					<p>
						<span>But alas for him, even leechcraft’s lore</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">May be made the thrall of the lust of gain!</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Even him did guerdon of golden ore,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">In his palm as it glittered, seduce to his bane,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>To bring back a man from the realm of the dead</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Whom Hades already had captive led.</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">Wherefore Kronion smote those twain</span>
						<br/>
						<span>With the vengeance-bolt from his hand swift-sped;</span>
						<br/>
						<span>And that all-dreaded thunder-stone</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">Dashed from their bosoms the breath for their sin.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>From the Gods it behoves that we seek alone</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">Things meet for mortal spirits to win,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>That, knowing what lies at the feet of man,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>And discerning the bounds of our mortal span,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i4">We abide therein.</span>
					</p>
				</section>
				<section id="pythian-3-9">
					<header>
						<p>Epode 3</p>
					</header>
					<p>
						<span>Covet not thou, O my soul, to live</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">The Immortals’ life! Let us use as we may</span>
						<br/>
						<span>The means that Fate to our hands shall give.</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">Yet, if Cheiron the wise in his cave this day</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">Dwelt, and our honey-sweet songs might lay</span>
						<br/>
						<span>On his spirit a spell that his will might bend,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>I had won on him then some healer to send</span>
						<br/>
						<span>To deliver from feverous pains my friend,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">Such an one as Asklepius Apollo’s son.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>O’er Ionian waters voyaging</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Oh then had I reached Arethusa’s spring,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">And to Etna’s ruler, mine host, had I gone,</span>
					</p>
				</section>
				<section id="pythian-3-10">
					<header>
						<p>Strophe 4</p>
					</header>
					<p>
						<span>Who o’er Syracuse holdeth empery,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">A king to his citizens gracious-souled;</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Never jealous of good men’s weal is he</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">Whom stranger-friends from far lands hold</span>
						<br/>
						<span>As a father with worshipful marvelling.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>O might I but land on his shores and bring</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">A twofold boon, even health’s pure gold,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>And the triumph-chant therewithal that I sing</span>
						<br/>
						<span>To light with splendour the Pythian crown</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">Which his steed Pherenikus in days gone by</span>
						<br/>
						<span>At Kirrha won for his lord’s renown,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">To my friend then, crossing the deep sea, I</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Had come as a light clear-shining afar,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Ay, beaming brighter than any star</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i4">In yonder sky.</span>
					</p>
				</section>
				<section id="pythian-3-11">
					<header>
						<p>Antistrophe 4</p>
					</header>
					<p>
						<span>Yet, unto the Mother, the Goddess adored,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">For thine helping with prayers would I fain draw near.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Whose praises, with those of the Forest-lord,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">Beside my portal chanted I hear</span>
						<br/>
						<span>By maidens oft, when the night is still.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>But, Hiero, seeing thyself hast skill</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">To interpret the lore of the ancient seer,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>This knowest thou⁠—<em>This is the high Gods’ will</em></span>
						<br/>
						<span>
							<em>To apportion alway afflictions twain</em>
						</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">
							<em>For each one boon that on man they bestow.</em>
						</span>
						<br/>
						<span>It is only the foolish who cannot sustain</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">With fit resignation their burden of woe:</span>
						<br/>
						<span>But spirits heroic their sorrow can hide</span>
						<br/>
						<span>’Neath a calm smile; so life’s fairer side</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i4">To the world do they show.</span>
					</p>
				</section>
				<section id="pythian-3-12">
					<header>
						<p>Epode 4</p>
					</header>
					<p>
						<span>Yet on thee doth a lot of happiness wait;</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">For if upon any man She hath deigned</span>
						<br/>
						<span>With favour to look, all-ruling Fate,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">’Tis on him who over a nation hath reigned.</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">Nor Peleus nor Kadmus the godlike attained</span>
						<br/>
						<span>To a life safeguarded from suffering aye:</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Yet of all men these, as the old myths say,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>To the highest happiness rose, for they</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">Heard the gold-tired Muses on Pelion</span>
						<br/>
						<span>And in Thebes of the seven gates, when the bride</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Of the one was Harmonia lovely-eyed,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">And Thetis the Sea-queen Peleus won.</span>
					</p>
				</section>
				<section id="pythian-3-13">
					<header>
						<p>Strophe 5</p>
					</header>
					<p>
						<span>Yea, and the Gods sat at meat with these,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">And the Sons of Kronos did they behold</span>
						<br/>
						<span>As kings in the heavenly palaces</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">Seated upon their thrones of gold,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>And received of them many a bridal gift;</span>
						<br/>
						<span>And by Zeus were they saved from the stormy drift</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">Of woes overpast o’er their heads that had rolled;</span>
						<br/>
						<span>And their hearts in gladness did they uplift.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Yet the days of their joyance were all too brief;</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">For the years drew nigh when Kadmus should see</span>
						<br/>
						<span>His portion of happiness turned to grief</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">By the bitter travail of daughters three.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Yet Thyone the white-armed drew from above</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Down to her couch by the spell of love</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i4">Zeus’ majesty.</span>
					</p>
				</section>
				<section id="pythian-3-14">
					<header>
						<p>Antistrophe 5</p>
					</header>
					<p>
						<span>And the son of Peleus, the only son</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">Whom Thetis the deathless Goddess bore</span>
						<br/>
						<span>In Phthia to him⁠—from that glorious one</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">The arrow in battle his sweet life tore;</span>
						<br/>
						<span>And the Danaans’ wail rang loud, as they yearned</span>
						<br/>
						<span>For their mightiest lost, on the pyre as he burned.</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">Now if any of mortals by wisdom’s lore</span>
						<br/>
						<span>The way of truth in his soul hath discerned,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Well may he be happy, if God bestow</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">The fortune fair by the Blessèd given.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Yet ever the blasts veer to and fro</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">Of the winds that fly o’er the fields of heaven.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Not long doth the bliss of mortals endure,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Yea, though it have come in full measure, and pure</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i4">From sorrow’s leaven.</span>
					</p>
				</section>
				<section id="pythian-3-15">
					<header>
						<p>Epode 5</p>
					</header>
					<p>
						<span>Small shall I be if small my estate,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">And great shall I grow if great it be.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>What fortune soever for me may wait,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">I will strive to adorn it worthily.</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">Should God grant easeful wealth unto me,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>I would fain win fame too in oncoming days.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>So Nestor and Lycian Sarpedon in lays</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Ringing loud on the lips of men, have praise,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">Whom we see as it were in temples enshrined</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Uppiled by the master-builders of song;</span>
						<br/>
						<span>For through glorious strains liveth chivalry long⁠—</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">But the path unto that fame few may find.</span>
					</p>
				</section>
			</article>
			<article id="pythian-4" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<header>
					<h3 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">IV</h3>
					<p epub:type="bridgehead">For Arkesilas of Kyrene, on his victory in the chariot-race, 462 <abbr epub:type="se:era">BC</abbr>. The Ode is mainly taken up with the story of the Argonauts because one of them, Euphemus, was the ancestor of the kings of Kyrene, and his descendant Battus was the founder of the colony.</p>
				</header>
				<section id="pythian-4-1">
					<header>
						<p>Strophe 1</p>
					</header>
					<p>
						<span>This day, O Muse, in the presence of a friend it behoves thee to stand,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Even the King of Kyrene, the goodly battle-steed’s land,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>That so, when Arkesilas leadeth the revel-dance sweeping along,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Thou at his side mayst be swelling the breeze of acclaiming song</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Which is due unto Leto’s children, to Pytho the temple due,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Where of old, when Apollo’s presence was a glory that shone therethrough,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>The priestess enthroned by the golden eagles of Zeus revealed</span>
						<br/>
						<span>That Battus should found an empire in Libya’s fruitful field,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Should depart from his hallowed island, and build on the gleaming height</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Of the breast of the earth a city of chariots splendour-dight.</span>
					</p>
				</section>
				<section id="pythian-4-2">
					<header>
						<p>Antistrophe 1</p>
					</header>
					<p>
						<span>In the seventeenth generation so should the word be fulfilled</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Which at Thera Medea spake, which the daughter passionate-willed</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Of Aietes, the Colchian princess, breathed from immortal lips</span>
						<br/>
						<span>To the heroes that with Jason fared on the highway of ships:</span>
						<br/>
						<span>“Hearken to me, ye scions of warriors mighty-souled,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Ye that of Gods be descended, to the thing of my tongue foretold:</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Lo, from this land of Thera that is scourged by the brine of the sea</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Shall in Epaphus’ daughter Libya be planted in days to be</span>
						<br/>
						<span>A root that shall grow into cities that mortals shall hold full dear.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>To the temple-foundations of Ammon, of Libyan Zeus, lying near.</span>
					</p>
				</section>
				<section id="pythian-4-3">
					<header>
						<p>Epode 1</p>
					</header>
					<p>
						<span>“And instead of the short-finned dolphin shall they take the fleetfoot steed,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Wield reins instead of the oar-blade, drive chariots of whirlwind speed.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>For by that augury-token fulfilled shall be Thera’s fate</span>
						<br/>
						<span>To become the mother-city of burgs exceeding great,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>That token the which aforetime at Tritonis the mere’s outflow</span>
						<br/>
						<span>On Euphemus who leapt from Argo did a God of the sea bestow,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>A God who in man’s shape proffered a clod of earth for his gift:</span>
						<br/>
						<span>And Zeus Kronion thundered approval thereof from the lift.</span>
					</p>
				</section>
				<section id="pythian-4-4">
					<header>
						<p>Strophe 2</p>
					</header>
					<p>
						<span>“For he lighted on us, that stranger, as the men were in act to hang</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Upon Argo’s side the anchor, the curb of the brazen fang.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Over ridges of homeless desert had they borne for twelve days’ space</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Away from the Ocean the galley that wont o’er the sea to race;</span>
						<br/>
						<span>For they haled her ashore, obeying the counsel spoken of me.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Then came that Solitary, the Triton-god of the sea,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Wearing the splendid semblance of a worship-worthy man,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>And with words of kindly welcome his utterance began,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Such speech as of hosts good-hearted is spoken, when such draw near</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Unto far-travelled guests, and bid them to taste of the banquet’s cheer.</span>
					</p>
				</section>
				<section id="pythian-4-5">
					<header>
						<p>Antistrophe 2</p>
					</header>
					<p>
						<span>“Howbeit for that guest-feasting the heroes might not stay,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>For the lure of the sweet home-coming beckoned them ever away.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>But Eurypylus he named him, deathless Earth-shaker’s son,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Born of the Land-enfolder: yet marking our haste to begone,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>He put forth his hand, and straightway caught up from the earth a clod</span>
						<br/>
						<span>As it lay at his feet, and proffered the same as the gift of a god.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Nor scorned it Euphemus, but leaping from Argo’s deck to the strand</span>
						<br/>
						<span>He received that fateful guest-gift, and clasped the giver’s hand.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>But alas, it abode not with us! Washed over the galley’s side</span>
						<br/>
						<span>It fleeted away on the sea-brine in the dusk of eventide</span>
					</p>
				</section>
				<section id="pythian-4-6">
					<header>
						<p>Epode 2</p>
					</header>
					<p>
						<span>“Adrift on the heaving outsea: yet laid I once and again</span>
						<br/>
						<span>My charge to watch it safely on our helpers the serving-men:</span>
						<br/>
						<span>But ah, they forgat! So on Thera’s isle the unperishing seed</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Of Libya the wide is upwashen before the time decreed.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>For if only Euphemus, the scion of Poseidon the chariot-lord⁠—</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Whom Europa Tityos’ daughter bare on the margent-sward</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Of Kephisus⁠—to Tainarus speeding, there in the homeland had hurled</span>
						<br/>
						<span>That clod through the chasm-portals of Hades’ underworld,</span>
					</p>
				</section>
				<section id="pythian-4-7">
					<header>
						<p>Strophe 3</p>
					</header>
					<p>
						<span>“Then in the fourth generation the sons of his blood had ta’en</span>
						<br/>
						<span>With the Danaans’ help possession of Libya’s boundless plain;</span>
						<br/>
						<span>For then from great Lacedaemon, from Argos’ wide-mouthed bay</span>
						<br/>
						<span>And Mycenae, had warriors thither fared in a mighty array.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>But, as things have befallen, Euphemus shall wed with an alien dame,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>And shall win him from those espousals a chosen seed of his name</span>
						<br/>
						<span>The which, of the high Gods honoured, shall come unto Thera’s strand</span>
						<br/>
						<span>And beget a man to be ruler of that cloud-shadowed land:</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Unto him in the hall of Phoebus, the temple rich in gold,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Shall the word of the revelation of an oracle be told,</span>
					</p>
				</section>
				<section id="pythian-4-8">
					<header>
						<p>Antistrophe 3</p>
					</header>
					<p>
						<span>“When in days to come he descendeth into the sanctuary</span>
						<br/>
						<span>At Pytho, bidding him carry a host of men oversea</span>
						<br/>
						<span>To Kronion’s fertile precinct that lieth beside the Nile.”</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Even such was the chant prophetic that Medea uttered, the while</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Moveless sitting in silence the heroes bowed the head,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>And hearkened the counsel of wisdom that breathed in the words that she said.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Blest scion of Polymnestus, of no man save of thee</span>
						<br/>
						<span>The oracle told that glory by the voice of the Delphic Bee</span>
						<br/>
						<span>With utterance unprompted; and “All hail!” thrice she cried,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>And proclaimed thee the destined ruler of Kyrene’s kingdom wide,</span>
					</p>
				</section>
				<section id="pythian-4-9">
					<header>
						<p>Epode 3</p>
					</header>
					<p>
						<span>When thou earnest to ask what healing the Gods would grant of their grace</span>
						<br/>
						<span>For thy stammering tongue. Of a surety now in the latter days,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>As when mid the springtide’s roses a burgeoning tree is seen,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>So, eighth in the line of Battus, Arkesilas’ leaf is green.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Even him did Apollo and Pytho cause to be triumph-renowned</span>
						<br/>
						<span>In the chariot-race in the presence of all folk dwelling around.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>I will hymn his fame to the Song-queens, and will sing of the Golden Fleece,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Of the Minyans’ Quest and the sowing of god-given glory for these.</span>
					</p>
				</section>
				<section id="pythian-4-10">
					<header>
						<p>Strophe 4</p>
					</header>
					<p>
						<span>What Power overshadowing lured them forth on the sea-track long?</span>
						<br/>
						<span>What peril to that Quest bound them with clamps as of adamant strong?</span>
						<br/>
						<span>A god-given oracle boded that Pelias should die</span>
						<br/>
						<span>By the hands of Aiolus’ children, or their merciless subtlety.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Yea, a prophecy came to him chilling the heart of the crafty-souled;</span>
						<br/>
						<span>From the mid-stone of Earth-mother vestured with trees was the word outrolled:</span>
						<br/>
						<span>“Above all things else beware thou with uttermost heed,” said the God,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>“Of the man that from highland homesteads with single sandal shod</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Unto far-renowned lolkos of the sunny plains shall fare,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Be he a man of thy country, or stranger from otherwhere.”</span>
					</p>
				</section>
				<section id="pythian-4-11">
					<header>
						<p>Antistrophe 4</p>
					</header>
					<p>
						<span>At the last was he come, a hero of wondrous-mighty frame;</span>
						<br/>
						<span>With lances twain that quivered in his iron grasp he came.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>And twofold vesture arrayed him; the garb of the Magnete folk</span>
						<br/>
						<span>To his goodly limbs close-lapping clung; but tossed like a cloak</span>
						<br/>
						<span>O’er his shoulders a pard’s fell screening from arrowy showers lay.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>From the glory of his bright tresses nought had been shorn away,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>But unminished, a rippling splendour, adown his back they shone.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>With feet unfaltering straightway and swiftly strode he on,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>And he stood, as one that proveth a spirit of peril uncowed,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>In the midst of the place of folkmote filled with its thronging crowd.</span>
					</p>
				</section>
				<section id="pythian-4-12">
					<header>
						<p>Epode 4</p>
					</header>
					<p>
						<span>And no man knew him; but awestruck they gazed, and one spake word:</span>
						<br/>
						<span>“Of a surety is this not Apollo, nor Aphrodite’s lord</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Of the chariot of brass! And Otus, and Ephialtes thou</span>
						<br/>
						<span>The dauntless, in gleaming Naxos perished long ere now,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Ye sons of Iphimedeia; nor Tityos could outrun</span>
						<br/>
						<span>The arrow as lightning leaping the heart of the quarry that won,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Which Artemis out of her quiver invincible sped, that man</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Might be warned to grasp not at dalliance beyond our mortal span.”</span>
					</p>
				</section>
				<section id="pythian-4-13">
					<header>
						<p>Strophe 5</p>
					</header>
					<p>
						<span>So spake they each unto other, questioning, answering thus.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>But now Cometh Pelias speeding with haste impetuous</span>
						<br/>
						<span>His mules and his polished chariot⁠—suddenly stayed he and stared</span>
						<br/>
						<span>In amaze at the one foot sandalled of the man with the left foot bared,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>The unmistakable token! Howbeit he hid in his heart</span>
						<br/>
						<span>His dread, and he spake: “Thou stranger, say of what land thou art,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>And what is thy fatherland tell me! What womb gave thee birth?</span>
						<br/>
						<span>What giantess was thy mother of the ancient children of Earth?</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Speak out! Of thy lineage tell us; and see that thou do not defile</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Thy lips with words of feigning, with falsehoods loathsome-vile!”</span>
					</p>
				</section>
				<section id="pythian-4-14">
					<header>
						<p>Antistrophe 5</p>
					</header>
					<p>
						<span>But unafraid that stranger answering spake to the king</span>
						<br/>
						<span>With unangry words: “The wisdom of Cheiron hither I bring:</span>
						<br/>
						<span>From Chariklo and Philyra’s presence, from the cave of the shadows I come</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Whom the Centaur’s stainless daughters reared in their mountain-home.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Years twice ten there I accomplished, and never deed or word</span>
						<br/>
						<span>In truth or in honesty lacking in me have they seen or heard.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>And hither I come returning to this the home of my race</span>
						<br/>
						<span>To win me back the honour that in unforgotten days</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Was my sire’s, which a godless usurper out of his hands hath torn,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>The honour to Aiolus granted of Zeus, by his sons to be borne.</span>
					</p>
				</section>
				<section id="pythian-4-15">
					<header>
						<p>Epode 5</p>
					</header>
					<p>
						<span>“For I hear how the lawless-hearted, one Pelias, lured astray</span>
						<br/>
						<span>By the lusts of his envy, by violence snatched the sceptre away</span>
						<br/>
						<span>From my father and mother, to whom it pertained by ancestral right,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>These, dreading the tyrant’s outrage, so soon as I looked on the light,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>As though for a new-dead dear one, made dusky-garbed lament,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>And amid wild wailing of women the babe from the home they sent</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Swaddled in purple swathings, by paths Night knew alone;</span>
						<br/>
						<span>And to Cheiron they gave me to foster, to the Centaur, Kronos’ son.</span>
					</p>
				</section>
				<section id="pythian-4-16">
					<header>
						<p>Strophe 6</p>
					</header>
					<p>
						<span>“Now therefore of this my story the sum and the substance ye know;</span>
						<br/>
						<span>And I pray you, O kindly burghers, to me do ye plainly show</span>
						<br/>
						<span>The dwelling wherein my fathers, lords of white steeds, abode;</span>
						<br/>
						<span>For the feet of a son of Aison shall surely not have trode</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Upon alien soil in the homeland, the land I claim for mine!</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Jason my name is: the Centaur named me with lips divine.”</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Then his father’s eyes, as he entered the old home, knew him again,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>And gushed from his aged eyelids the tears like summer rain;</span>
						<br/>
						<span>For his spirit rejoiced within him when he beheld that son,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>The chief est among ten thousand, the goodliest-moulded one.</span>
					</p>
				</section>
				<section id="pythian-4-17">
					<header>
						<p>Antistrophe 6</p>
					</header>
					<p>
						<span>And the brethren twain of the father came thither the son to greet,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>So soon as they heard the tidings of his home-returning feet.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Not from afar came Pheres from Hypereia’s spring:</span>
						<br/>
						<span>From Messene fared Amythaon: Admetus hastening</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Thitherward came with Melampus, and greeted lovingly</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Their kinsman. And while they feasted, with gracious courtesy</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Did Jason commune with them ever, and he made them abundant cheer,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>And he lengthened out all joyance of the hearts that held him dear:</span>
						<br/>
						<span>For five long nights together, five days, did the hero abide</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Still plucking the consecrated flowers of the festal tide.</span>
					</p>
				</section>
				<section id="pythian-4-18">
					<header>
						<p>Epode 6</p>
					</header>
					<p>
						<span>But with earnest speech on the sixth day at last did Jason begin</span>
						<br/>
						<span>To set forth from the beginning the whole tale unto his kin.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>And these to his counsel consented: from the banqueting-couch straightway</span>
						<br/>
						<span>With these he uprose; to the palace of Pelias on passed they.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>And they hasted and stood there; and hearing them, came to meet the men</span>
						<br/>
						<span>That son of Tyro the lovely-haired. Spake Jason then,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>And of wise speech laid the foundation, with words of unangry tone</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Soft-flowing: “Son of Poseidon the Cleaver of crag-piled stone,</span>
					</p>
				</section>
				<section id="pythian-4-19">
					<header>
						<p>Strophe 7</p>
					</header>
					<p>
						<span>“The spirits of men run swiftly, too swiftly they run on the path</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Of the wages of treachery, rather than guerdons that justice hath;</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Yet their lives glide on to the reckoning stern that for all doth remain.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>But thee and me it behoveth by law our passions to rein,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>And for days to come to be weaving the web of our well-being so.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>One mother had our forefathers⁠—this I would say dost thou know⁠—</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Rash-hearted Salmoneus and Kretheus; and we who in these days see</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Helios’ majesty golden, of the third generation are we.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Now if there arise black hatred ’twixt mortals by blood akin.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Far off stand the Destiny-weavers, to see not the shame and the sin.</span>
					</p>
				</section>
				<section id="pythian-4-20">
					<header>
						<p>Antistrophe 7</p>
					</header>
					<p>
						<span>“Us twain it beseemeth in no wise with spear or with bronze-forged sword</span>
						<br/>
						<span>To apportion the goodly honour of our fathers’ treasure-hoard;</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Nor needeth it⁠—lo, all sheep-flocks and tawny herds of kine</span>
						<br/>
						<span>I yield unto thee, and the pastures and tilth-lands, still to be thine,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Whereof thou hast spoiled my parents, and ever art swelling thy store.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>O yea, and it nowise vexeth my soul that of these evermore</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Thou increasest thine house’s riches:⁠—but the kingly sceptre and throne</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Whereon the son of Kretheus sat in the days bygone,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>And over a nation of horsemen ruled in equity,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Even these without malice between us yield unto him and to me,</span>
					</p>
				</section>
				<section id="pythian-4-21">
					<header>
						<p>Epode 7</p>
					</header>
					<p>
						<span>“Lest out of it some new mischief should spring up.” Thus he spake.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>And with words that peaceably sounded did Pelias answer make:</span>
						<br/>
						<span>“I will be as thou wilt: but already is old age compassing</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Mine head; but thy life is waxing in the fiower-tide of thy spring;</span>
						<br/>
						<span>And strength is thine for appeasing the Powers of the world below;</span>
						<br/>
						<span>For unto the halls of Aietes Phrixus biddeth us go</span>
						<br/>
						<span>To lead homeward his spirit, and hither the fell thick-fleeced to bear</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Of the Ram from the sea that saved him, from his stepdame’s impious snare.</span>
					</p>
				</section>
				<section id="pythian-4-22">
					<header>
						<p>Strophe 8</p>
					</header>
					<p>
						<span>“Such was the strange hest spoken by a voice in a dream that came.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>And to Kastaly’s oracle also have I sent to enquire of the same,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Whether truly the quest should be ventured; and the oracle biddeth me</span>
						<br/>
						<span>To make ready with speed a galley to bring these home oversea.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>This emprise do thou accomplish of free will: then, when again</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Thou comest, I swear to yield thee the throne thereon to reign.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>And let Zeus himself be the witness, that the oath-pledge firm may be,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Zeus, the ancestral father of the race of thee and me.”</span>
						<br/>
						<span>So in peace they parted, consenting that so should the covenant stand.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Then Jason sent heralds to publish the Quest through every land.</span>
					</p>
				</section>
				<section id="pythian-4-23">
					<header>
						<p>Antistrophe 8</p>
					</header>
					<p>
						<span>And lo, three sons of Kronion came at his call straightway:</span>
						<br/>
						<span>No labour of battle could tire them, seed of the Highest they!</span>
						<br/>
						<span>The one of Alkmena the star-eyed was born, and of Leda twain.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>And there came two heroes with helmets tossing the stormy mane;</span>
						<br/>
						<span>And these were the Earth-shaker’s scions, and honour was blent with their might.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Thither they journeyed from Pylos and Tainarus’ foreland-height.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Perfected so is the glory that thou, Euphemus, hast found,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>And thine, Periklymenus, peerless in prowess far-renowned.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>And, sped by Apollo thither, the master of harp-strings came,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>The father of song, even Orpheus of unforgotten fame.</span>
					</p>
				</section>
				<section id="pythian-4-24">
					<header>
						<p>Epode 8</p>
					</header>
					<p>
						<span>And of Hermes, the Lord of the Golden Sword, have two sons gone</span>
						<br/>
						<span>To the toil wherefrom no respite was given, Echion the one,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>And the other Eurytus, joying in the strength of life’s spring-day.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>And swiftly came from their dwelling at the roots of Pangaius that lay</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Zetes and Kalais: gladly their father Boreas, king</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Of the Winds, arrayed them in pinions on their shoulders fluttering.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Hera it was that enkindled the yearning whose strong spell drew</span>
						<br/>
						<span>All these demigod heroes to be of Argo’s crew,</span>
					</p>
				</section>
				<section id="pythian-4-25">
					<header>
						<p>Strophe 9</p>
					</header>
					<p>
						<span>That none by the side of his mother be left still drowsing on</span>
						<br/>
						<span>In a sodden life unperilled, but, though through death it were won,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Along with the rest his compeers he should find in the land oversea</span>
						<br/>
						<span>And drain the magic chalice of the glory of chivalry.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>So came they, the flower of all shipmen, down to Iolkos’ shore;</span>
						<br/>
						<span>And the tale of them all told Jason, and thanked them o’er and o’er.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>And his helper Mopsus the prophet enquired the will of Heaven,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>For he noted the tokens of bird-flight and hallowed lots that were given;</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Then joyfully cried to them: “Get you aboard, for the hour is now!”</span>
						<br/>
						<span>And they heaved and hung the anchor over the galley’s prow.</span>
					</p>
				</section>
				<section id="pythian-4-26">
					<header>
						<p>Antistrophe 9</p>
					</header>
					<p>
						<span>Then a golden bowl their chieftain took in his hands, and high</span>
						<br/>
						<span>On the stern unto Zeus the Father of the Heavenly Ones did he cry,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Unto him whose lance is the lightning; to the rushing feet did he pray</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Of the waves, and the wild wind-pinions, to speed them on their way;</span>
						<br/>
						<span>To the nights and the great deep’s highways he prayed, that the days might be</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Gracious, and kindly the fortune of the home-return oversea.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>And a voice of thunder propitious out of the welkin crashed,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>And dazzling gleams of lightning from the rifted cloud-walls flashed.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>And the heroes breathed more lightly, their hearts with comfort glowed,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>For they put their trust in the tokens that God from his heaven forth-showed.</span>
					</p>
				</section>
				<section id="pythian-4-27">
					<header>
						<p>Epode 9</p>
					</header>
					<p>
						<span>And of hopes with fear unmingled the seer spake, while he bade</span>
						<br/>
						<span>To smite with the oar the waters: the swiftly-flashing blade</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Swung by their hands untiring over the sea sped on,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>And the south-wind onward-wafting blew; and so they won</span>
						<br/>
						<span>To the mouth of the Sea Unfriendly: there made they a holy place</span>
						<br/>
						<span>To the Lord of the Deep; and a red-felled herd of the bulls of Thrace</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Was there, and a new-built altar of stone with a basin therein.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>And now, as they sped on, deeper they plunged into peril’s gin.</span>
					</p>
				</section>
				<section id="pythian-4-28">
					<header>
						<p>Strophe 10</p>
					</header>
					<p>
						<span>But they cried to the Lord of Shipmen to bring them safely through</span>
						<br/>
						<span>The resistless rush of the Countering Rocks; for these were two,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>And alive they were, and onward they rolled more fearful-fast</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Than the thunderous-roaring battalions of winds; but death at the last</span>
						<br/>
						<span>By the demigods’ voyage was dealt them. To Phasis then came they,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>And there with the swart-faced Colchians they clashed in battle-play,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Yea, in the very presence of King Aietes. Then</span>
						<br/>
						<span>The Queen of the Darts keen-piercing brought from Olympus to men</span>
						<br/>
						<span>That dappled bird of the madness of love, the wryneck, and bound</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Was the thing by the Lady of Cyprus on a wheel whirled ceaselessly round</span>
					</p>
				</section>
				<section id="pythian-4-29">
					<header>
						<p>Antistrophe 10</p>
					</header>
					<p>
						<span>From whose arms there was no escaping; and she was the first that brought</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Unto earth that charm. And to Aison’s son the Goddess taught</span>
						<br/>
						<span>The Suppliant’s Incantation, whose glamour should cause to depart</span>
						<br/>
						<span>All reverent love of parents out of Medea’s heart,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>That a longing for Hellas might lash her with Suasion’s whip, till afire</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Was her soul. And she straightway taught him to achieve the tasks that her sire</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Had appointed to him; for she blended in magical wise with oil</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Strange drugs to anoint him, counter-spells for the fiery toil.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>And therewithal these vowed them each unto other to be</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Linked in the bands delightsome of spousal unity.</span>
					</p>
				</section>
				<section id="pythian-4-30">
					<header>
						<p>Epode 10</p>
					</header>
					<p>
						<span>But when in the midst Aietes had set the adamant plough</span>
						<br/>
						<span>And the bulls, which out of their glowing jaws were breathing now</span>
						<br/>
						<span>The flame of a fire fierce-burning, as hoof after hoof of them stamped</span>
						<br/>
						<span>On the shuddering ground, as with brazen feet they heavily tramped,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Then, unholpen of any, he led them to the yoke; straight furrows he drew,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>And up from a trench of a fathom deep huge clods he threw.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Thereafter he cried his challenge: “This work now let your king,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Whosoe’er hath command of your galley, to its accomplishment bring,</span>
					</p>
				</section>
				<section id="pythian-4-31">
					<header>
						<p>Strophe 11</p>
					</header>
					<p>
						<span>“And so bear off for his guerdon the unperishing coverlet,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Even the Fleece with golden-gleaming tassels beset.”</span>
						<br/>
						<span>As he spake it, his saffron mantle did Jason cast aside,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>And trusting in God he grappled with the task, and the rushing tide</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Of flame played on him unquailing, for magic wrapped him round</span>
						<br/>
						<span>By the spells of the sorceress-stranger. He seized the plough, and he bound</span>
						<br/>
						<span>The bulls’ necks fast in the harness, he stabbed each strong-ribbed frame</span>
						<br/>
						<span>With the merciless goad; and so to the end of the set task came</span>
						<br/>
						<span>That stalwart hero. Aietes, in amazement’s agony,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Beholding the might of the stranger, gasped a wordless cry.</span>
					</p>
				</section>
				<section id="pythian-4-32">
					<header>
						<p>Antistrophe 11</p>
					</header>
					<p>
						<span>Then to the strong-limbed hero, in token of love that they bare.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Stretched forth their hands his comrades, and crowned with garlands his hair,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>And with loving praises they hailed him, and glad acclaiming shout.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Then straightway the wondrous scion of Helios pointed out</span>
						<br/>
						<span>The place where the golden-gleaming Fleece was hung, wide-strained</span>
						<br/>
						<span>By the falchion of Phrixus: he trusted the goal should ne’er be attained</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Of that last toil by the stranger: in a tangled thicket it lay</span>
						<br/>
						<span>In a ravening dragon’s warding whose jaw-teeth gripped it aye;</span>
						<br/>
						<span>And in length and in breadth was he greater than a galley fifty-oared</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Welded by iron mallets with blow upon blow down-poured.</span>
					</p>
				</section>
				<section id="pythian-4-33">
					<header>
						<p>Epode 11</p>
					</header>
					<p>
						<span>Too long for me is the wheel-rutted track, for the sands run low</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Of time; moreover a certain short bypath I know</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Who am leader in song unto many. The serpent lurid-eyed,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Iridescent-scaled, by the magic spells of the hero died⁠—</span>
						<br/>
						<span>O Arkesilas;⁠—and aided of Medea, he stole her, and fled</span>
						<br/>
						<span>With her who was Pelias’ death-snare. Through Ocean’s deeps they sped</span>
						<br/>
						<span>And the Red Sea; thence to the husband-slayers in Lemnos they came.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>There strove they for guerdons of raiment in many an athlete-game,</span>
					</p>
				</section>
				<section id="pythian-4-34">
					<header>
						<p>Strophe 12</p>
					</header>
					<p>
						<span>And they couched with the women: in alien furrows there did they sow</span>
						<br/>
						<span>By night or by day the fateful seed of the bright sun-glow</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Of your line’s fair fortune. Planted there was Euphemus’ race,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Destined to fadeless increase through ever-during days.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>In the homesteads of Lacedaemon the wanderers tarried awhile;</span>
						<br/>
						<span>In Thera thereafter abode they, once named Kalliste’s Isle.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Thence was it the Son of Leto led your sires oversea,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>And gave them the plains of Libya, to bring prosperity</span>
						<br/>
						<span>To the land by god-given honours, and to rule o’er the hallowed town</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Of golden-throned Kyrene, the Nymph of old renown,</span>
					</p>
				</section>
				<section id="pythian-4-35">
					<header>
						<p>Antistrophe 12</p>
					</header>
					<p>
						<span>Having devised for it counsel that ruleth in righteousness aye.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Now learn thou of Oedipus’ wisdom:<a href="endnotes.xhtml#note-20" id="noteref-20" epub:type="noteref">20</a>⁠—“<em>If one should shear away</em></span>
						<br/>
						<span>
							<em>With the axe keen-cleaving the branches of a stately oak, and bring</em>
						</span>
						<br/>
						<span>
							<em>To shame its glorious beauty, even in the perishing</em>
						</span>
						<br/>
						<span>
							<em>Of its fruitage, it still giveth token of that which it was of old,</em>
						</span>
						<br/>
						<span>
							<em>Yea, though it should come to the hearth-fire at last in the winter’s cold,</em>
						</span>
						<br/>
						<span>
							<em>Or whether, a great beam resting athwart the columns tall</em>
						</span>
						<br/>
						<span>
							<em>That bear the weight of the rafters of a proud lord’s feasting-hall,</em>
						</span>
						<br/>
						<span>
							<em>It doeth slavish service walled in ’twixt roof and floor,</em>
						</span>
						<br/>
						<span><em>And the place that knew it aforetime shall know it again no more.</em>”</span>
					</p>
				</section>
				<section id="pythian-4-36">
					<header>
						<p>Epode 12</p>
					</header>
					<p>
						<span>A physician thou art most timely; the light that from thee doth pour</span>
						<br/>
						<span>The Healer-god honours. For tending a deeply festering sore</span>
						<br/>
						<span>One needeth a hand most gentle. The weakest fool may shake</span>
						<br/>
						<span>A state to its very foundations; but hard is the struggle to make</span>
						<br/>
						<span>It again in its place stand firmly, unless God hasten to be</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Unto its rulers a pilot o’er discord’s stormy sea.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>But for thee is the vesture woven of such fair fortune. Be strong</span>
						<br/>
						<span>In thy striving to stablish Kyrene in weal to continue long;</span>
					</p>
				</section>
				<section id="pythian-4-37">
					<header>
						<p>Strophe 13</p>
					</header>
					<p>
						<span>And of Homer’s sayings ponder thou this with diligent heed:⁠—</span>
						<br/>
						<span>“<em>A prudent messenger bringeth</em>,” he saith, “<em>unto every deed</em></span>
						<br/>
						<span><em>Honour exceeding goodly.</em>” By a message rightly told</span>
						<br/>
						<span>The Muse herself is exalted. Now Kyrene knoweth of old,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>And the world-famed hall of Battus knoweth, how righteously</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Demophilus ruled his spirit: a youth mid the youths was he</span>
						<br/>
						<span>In years, albeit in counsel was he as an elder of days,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Yea, as one that through years a hundred hath run life’s weary race.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>He silenceth slander; her blatant tongue is loud no more;</span>
						<br/>
						<span>And insolence overweening hath he throughly learned to abhor:</span>
					</p>
				</section>
				<section id="pythian-4-38">
					<header>
						<p>Antistrophe 13</p>
					</header>
					<p>
						<span>He contendeth not with the noble; he lingereth no long space</span>
						<br/>
						<span>In bringing a work to fulfilment;⁠—for Opportunity stays</span>
						<br/>
						<span>By a man but a fleeting moment: well is it marked of him still</span>
						<br/>
						<span>How it waiteth on him as a helper, not as the slave of his will.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Of all gifts this is the saddest, to know what is best for man,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>And yet that Fate the tyrant thy winning thereto should ban.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Ay, Atlas still stands straining beneath heaven’s crushing load,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>From all his possessions exiled, from his ancestral abode.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Yet by Zeus ever-living the Titans were unchained; and as on time fleets,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>With the lulling and veering of breezes may the shipmen shift the sheets.</span>
					</p>
				</section>
				<section id="pythian-4-39">
					<header>
						<p>Epode 13</p>
					</header>
					<p>
						<span>And this thy banished one prayeth that, now that his cup of pain</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Hath been drained to the dregs, he may look on the home of his youth again,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>May have part by Apollo’s fountain in the feast, may yield his heart</span>
						<br/>
						<span>To the joyance of youth, and mid burghers wise in the minstrel’s art</span>
						<br/>
						<span>May hold in his hands the cithern cunningly carved, and to peace</span>
						<br/>
						<span>May attain, doing hurt unto no man, and injured by none of these;</span>
						<br/>
						<span>And shall tell how fair a fountain of song immortal he found</span>
						<br/>
						<span>For Arkesilas, late welcomed by a friend on Theban ground.</span>
					</p>
				</section>
			</article>
			<article id="pythian-5" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<header>
					<h3 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">V</h3>
					<p epub:type="bridgehead">For Arkesilas of Kyrene, on the same victory as the preceding ode. It was sung at Kyrene on the return of the charioteer Karrhotus, the king’s brother-in-law, and leader of his armies (according to the scholiast). He brought back his horses, but his chariot remained at Delphi, consecrated to Apollo.</p>
				</header>
				<section id="pythian-5-1">
					<header>
						<p>Strophe 1</p>
					</header>
					<p>
						<span>Far-reaching power has wealth for him to whom</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">It comes, a gift that Destiny sends</span>
						<br/>
						<span>With stainless honour linked: so leads he home</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i4">A charm that wins him friends.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Thon, O Arkesilas the heaven-blest,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">Since from its first steps glory crowned</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Thy life, hast held that boon of Heaven in quest,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i4">Hast sought fair fame, and found,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>With aid of Kastor of the chariot golden,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">Who bade the wintry tempest cease,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>And sheds upon thine hearthstone bliss-enfolden</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i4">Sunlight of skies of peace.</span>
					</p>
				</section>
				<section id="pythian-5-2">
					<header>
						<p>Antistrophe 1</p>
					</header>
					<p>
						<span>Whoso are noble bear with fairest grace</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">Such power as God bestows on thee;</span>
						<br/>
						<span>And thou on paths of righteousness dost pace</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i4">Crowned with prosperity;</span>
						<br/>
						<span>For over mighty cities king thou art;</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">And thy discernment eagle-eyed,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Inborn with thee, hath wedded to thine heart</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i4">Honour as to a bride.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>And this day crowns thy bliss with triumph glorious</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">In Pythian Games by fleet steeds won.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Now hast thou welcomed home the chant victorious</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i4">As sweeps the revel on,</span>
					</p>
				</section>
				<section id="pythian-5-3">
					<header>
						<p>Epode 1</p>
					</header>
					<p>
						<span>Phoebus’ delight. So, when the song they raise</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">Around Kyrene’s garden fair</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Of Aphrodite, to give God the praise</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i4">For all, have thou a care.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>And hold Karrhotus dearest friend, who brought</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">Not back, to cloak disaster’s shame,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Excuse, the child of late-wise Afterthought,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i4">When to the halls he came</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Of Battus’ sons, whose just rule lives in story;</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">But, hailed her guest by Kastaly’s Spring,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Won for thee with his car a crown of glory⁠—</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i4">Thy car all-conquering!</span>
					</p>
				</section>
				<section id="pythian-5-4">
					<header>
						<p>Strophe 2</p>
					</header>
					<p>
						<span>With reins unsnapped through all that hallowed space</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">Around the courses twelve he swung,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Nor car nor harness brake he in the race,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i4">But dedicate hath hung</span>
						<br/>
						<span>On Phoebus’ wall the craftsmen’s masteries</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">Riding whereon he passed ere then</span>
						<br/>
						<span>The hill of Krisa to the plain that lies</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i4">In the God’s bosomed glen.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>The cypress shrine now hath them in possession</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">By that self-moulded statue placed</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Which Cretan bowmen ’neath the roof Parnassian</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i4">Unto the God upraised.</span>
					</p>
				</section>
				<section id="pythian-5-5">
					<header>
						<p>Antistrophe 2</p>
					</header>
					<p>
						<span>Beseems that with blithe heart thou welcome one</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Who hath done thee such service fair.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Splendour ye shed on Alexibius’ son,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>O Graces of bright hair!</span>
						<br/>
						<span>O happy thou, that after labour sore</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Thou hast the praise of noblest song</span>
						<br/>
						<span>To keep thy memory green! Mid those twoscore</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Drivers, who mid the throng</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Were hurled to earth, thou with a heart undaunted</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Didst drive unscathed thy chariot on,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>And now to Libya from Games glory-haunted</span>
						<br/>
						<span>And thy sires’ home hast won.</span>
					</p>
				</section>
				<section id="pythian-5-6">
					<header>
						<p>Epode 2</p>
					</header>
					<p>
						<span>No man is now, nor shall be, portionless</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">Of trouble: yet on Battus’ line</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Still waits the olden bliss, though happiness</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i4">And grief may intertwine.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Kyrene’s warder-tower is this, a light</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">Of splendour on the stranger shed.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Yea, thunder-throated lions in affright</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i4">From Battus’ outcry fled⁠—</span>
						<br/>
						<span>That voice from overseas! Your founder Apollo</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">Thrilled them with dread, that on the word</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Of prophecy might sure fulfilment follow</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i4">For him, Kyrene’s lord.</span>
					</p>
				</section>
				<section id="pythian-5-7">
					<header>
						<p>Strophe 3</p>
					</header>
					<p>
						<span>’Tis Phoebus gives to men and women skill</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">To heal all manner of disease;</span>
						<br/>
						<span>He gave the lyre, he teacheth whom he will</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i4">All Song’s sweet melodies.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Into men’s hearts Fair Governance he brings,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">Mother of peace: o’er Pytho’s cell</span>
						<br/>
						<span>He broodeth, whence his voice prophetic rings.</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i4">In Sparta he made dwell,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>In Argos, Pylos’ hallowed town, undaunted</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">Heracles’ and Aigimius’ line.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Now Sparta’s dear renown must needs be chanted</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i4">By her son’s lips, yea, mine.</span>
					</p>
				</section>
				<section id="pythian-5-8">
					<header>
						<p>Antistrophe 3</p>
					</header>
					<p>
						<span>Thence my forefathers sprang, the Aigeïdae,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">Who, by the Gods’ grace destiny-led,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>To Thera fared of old, whence also we</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i4">That Feast inherited</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Of sacrifice wherein all people share,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">And in thy feast Karneian, King</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Apollo, of Kyrene builded fair</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i4">The glorious honour sing,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Where dwell the brazen-harnessed Trojan strangers,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">Antenor’s sons, who fled the war</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Wherein they saw Troy burnt, and came, sea-rangers,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i4">With Helen from afar.</span>
					</p>
				</section>
				<section id="pythian-5-9">
					<header>
						<p>Epode 3</p>
					</header>
					<p>
						<span>Kind welcome to that chariot-driving band</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">With gifts and sacrifice they gave</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Whom Aristoteles brought to Libyan land</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i4">In swift ships o’er the wave,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Cleaving a deep path through the sea, and made</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">Greater the temple-groves divine,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>And for the festival-processions laid</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i4">A paved road’s level line</span>
						<br/>
						<span>For trampling steeds, and pilgrims magnifying</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">Apollo, Helper of our race.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>There now in death apart is Battus lying</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i4">Hard by the market-place.</span>
					</p>
				</section>
				<section id="pythian-5-10">
					<header>
						<p>Strophe 4</p>
					</header>
					<p>
						<span>Blest was he while with men he found a home:</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">All reverence him, their hero, yet.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Apart from him is each king’s hallowed tomb</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i4">Before the palace set.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>To them in Hades wins some echo through⁠—</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">If such life-music reach the dead⁠—</span>
						<br/>
						<span>How prowess is besprent with kindly dew</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i4">Of victory-song outshed.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>So theirs too is Arkesilas’ triumph-story,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">The fame that justice doth award.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>While chant the youths, ’tis meet he sing the glory</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i4">Of Phoebus Golden-sword,</span>
					</p>
				</section>
				<section id="pythian-5-11">
					<header>
						<p>Antistrophe 4</p>
					</header>
					<p>
						<span>He whom glad Pythian songs immortalize⁠—</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">The victor’s guerdon for all pains.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>I bat repeat the praises of the wise</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i4">In these my triumph-strains.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>His mind, his tongue, transcend his spring of life;</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">In courage as a broad-winged erne</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Mid weakling fowl, a tower in athlete-strife</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i4">No strength can overturn.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Even from his mother’s knee did he give token</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">Of wings with my Song-queens to soar:</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Of his car-driving skill the praise is spoken</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i4">By this the wide world o’er.</span>
					</p>
				</section>
				<section id="pythian-5-12">
					<header>
						<p>Epode 4</p>
					</header>
					<p>
						<span>And all paths that exalt his Libyan home</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">Hath he essayed. Now graciously</span>
						<br/>
						<span>God perfecteth his powers. Through years to come,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i4">Blest Kronos’ Sons, do ye</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Vouchsafe to him alike with hand and mind</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">Still to excel. May his work stay,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Wrecked by no blast of devastating wind</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i4">In his life’s autumn-day.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>The mighty mind of Zeus is ever guiding</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">Their destiny whom he loveth well.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>To Battus’ seed may he grant fame abiding</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i4">Also in Pisa’s dell.</span>
					</p>
				</section>
			</article>
			<article id="pythian-6" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<header>
					<h3 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">VI</h3>
					<p epub:type="bridgehead">For Xenocrates of Akragas, in Sicily, on the victory in the chariot-race won by his son, Thrasybulus, 490 <abbr epub:type="se:era">BC</abbr>.</p>
				</header>
				<section id="pythian-6-1">
					<header>
						<p>Strophe 1</p>
					</header>
					<p>
						<span>Hear! for our ploughshare is sundering</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">The glebe-furrows of starry-eyed</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">Aphrodite, where Graces guide</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">Our feet drawing nigh to the shrine</span>
						<br/>
						<span>At the navel of earth hollow-thundering,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">Where for Emmenus’ heaven-blest line</span>
						<br/>
						<span>And for Akragas’ city enfolden</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">By her river, and, more than all,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">For Xenocrates, riseth the hall</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Of a treasure-house song-upholden</span>
						<br/>
						<span>In Apollo’s glen of the golden</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">Gifts gracing his temple-wall.</span>
					</p>
				</section>
				<section id="pythian-6-2">
					<header>
						<p>Strophe 2</p>
					</header>
					<p>
						<span>That treasure no rain-storm, hurling</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">Its pitiless hosts from the cloud</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">Amid thunders crashing loud</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">Shall sweep to abysses of sea</span>
						<br/>
						<span>By the storm-wind with shingle-drift swirling;</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">But the porch of our treasury</span>
						<br/>
						<span>In brightness unsullied shall flame, it</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">Shall publish the triumph afar,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">Thrasybulus, won by thy car</span>
						<br/>
						<span>In Krisa; and men shall acclaim it</span>
						<br/>
						<span>For thy sire and thy kindred, shall name it</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">Their glory, their splendour-star.</span>
					</p>
				</section>
				<section id="pythian-6-3">
					<header>
						<p>Strophe 3</p>
					</header>
					<p>
						<span>At thy right hand thou settest him ever,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">And so by the charge dost thou hold</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">Which of yore mid the hills, it is told.</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">To Achilles the child left lone</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Did Philyra’s son deliver,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">Unto Peleus’ mighty son:</span>
						<br/>
						<span>“First of Abiders in Heaven</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">Kronion do thou adore</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">Lord of the thunder’s roar,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>And be reverence alway given</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Unto thy parents, even</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">To the end, till life be o’er.”</span>
					</p>
				</section>
				<section id="pythian-6-4">
					<header>
						<p>Strophe 4</p>
					</header>
					<p>
						<span>This selfsame spirit aforetime</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">Did mighty Antilochus bear:</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">For his father’s sake did he dare</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">That Aethiop chief’s death-stroke</span>
						<br/>
						<span>When Memnon prevailed in the war-time.</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">For trammelled was Nestor’s yoke</span>
						<br/>
						<span>By the steed on the red earth lying</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">By the arrow of Paris shot.</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">Ever nearer was havoc wrought</span>
						<br/>
						<span>By the lance that Memnon was plying;</span>
						<br/>
						<span>And the sire to his son spake, crying</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">For help, being terror-distraught.</span>
					</p>
				</section>
				<section id="pythian-6-5">
					<header>
						<p>Strophe 5</p>
					</header>
					<p>
						<span>That cry on the air was not wasted;</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">But withstanding a mightier alone,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">His father’s life with his own</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">That godlike son redeemed,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>And death’s cup of glory he tasted.</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">So in after days he seemed</span>
						<br/>
						<span>To the sons of each new generation</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">In those old times bygone</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">Ever the noblest son</span>
						<br/>
						<span>In filial love’s consecration.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Now⁠—by none out of any nation</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">Is Thrasybulus outdone</span>
					</p>
				</section>
				<section id="pythian-6-6">
					<header>
						<p>Strophe 6</p>
					</header>
					<p>
						<span>In the duty ordained of our fathers.</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">With his sire’s brother’s glory he vies,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">Is in usance of wealth ever wise,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">Nor in arrogance lawlessly</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Grasps at youth’s pleasures, but gathers</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">Flower-wisdom of poesy</span>
						<br/>
						<span>To the Muses’ hid garden ascending.</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">And he draweth nigh unto thee,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">O Earth-shaker, Lord of the sea,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>In thy chariot-contests contending.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>More sweet is his guest-befriending</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">Than the celled honeycomb of the bee.</span>
					</p>
				</section>
			</article>
			<article id="pythian-7" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<header>
					<h3 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">VII</h3>
					<p epub:type="bridgehead">For Megakles of Athens (which had ostracised him a few months before this), his victory in the four-horse chariot-race, 486 <abbr epub:type="se:era">BC</abbr>.</p>
				</header>
				<section id="pythian-7-1">
					<header>
						<p>Strophe</p>
					</header>
					<p>
						<span>No fairer prelude of the minstrel’s victory-chant can be</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">Than praise of Athens’ mighty town,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>When he would hymn the far-prevailing Alkmaionidae,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i4">And their swift steeds’ renown.</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">Yea, for what fatherland, what habitation,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i4">O singer, canst thou name</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">That doth transcend, through all the Hellene nation,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i6">Fair Athens’ fame?</span>
					</p>
				</section>
				<section id="pythian-7-2">
					<header>
						<p>Antistrophe</p>
					</header>
					<p>
						<span>There is no city but therethrough doth that proud story ring</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">Of King Erechtheus’ burghers told,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Who made thy shrine in hallowed Pytho, Phoebus Harper-King,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i4">A marvel to behold.</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">In Isthmian contests five were ye victorious</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i4">Inspiring the bard’s strain;</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">At Zeus’ Olympian Feast one prize most glorious,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i6">At Kirrha twain,</span>
					</p>
				</section>
				<section id="pythian-7-3">
					<header>
						<p>Epode</p>
					</header>
					<p>
						<span>Thou and thy sires, O Megakles, achieved.</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">In your fair fortune I delight,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Yet for the recompense my soul is grieved</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i4">That envy doth requite</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">Your noble deeds withal. Yet long-enduring</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i4">Prosperity still brings, they say,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">Evil with good; for there is no assuring</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i6">That bliss shall stay.</span>
					</p>
				</section>
			</article>
			<article id="pythian-8" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<header>
					<h3 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">VIII</h3>
					<p epub:type="bridgehead">For Aristomenes of Aegina, on his victory in the Boys’ wrestling-match, 446 <abbr epub:type="se:era">BC</abbr>.</p>
				</header>
				<section id="pythian-8-1">
					<header>
						<p>Strophe 1</p>
					</header>
					<p>
						<span>O gentle-hearted Queen of Peace, thou Daughter</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">Of Righteousness, to greatness dost thou raise</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Cities: of counsel calm and war’s mad slaughter</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">The master-keys thou holdest. Of thy grace</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i6">Welcome the praise</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">Of Aristomenes, in athlete-strife</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Won at the Pythian Games. Thou knowest truly</span>
						<br/>
						<span>How to receive and give in season duly</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">The kindly courtesies that sweeten life.</span>
					</p>
				</section>
				<section id="pythian-8-2">
					<header>
						<p>Antistrophe 1</p>
					</header>
					<p>
						<span>Yet thou, whenever any man hath driven</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">Thine heart to righteous wrath, relentlessly,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Sternly against the might of foes hast striven:</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">Their insolence into the abyss of sea</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i6">Is hurled by thee.</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">Porphyrion had not learned thy mighty sway</span>
						<br/>
						<span>When he provoked thy spirit overmeasure.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>If willing be the giver, precious treasure</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">Is that which the receiver bears away.</span>
					</p>
				</section>
				<section id="pythian-8-3">
					<header>
						<p>Epode 1</p>
					</header>
					<p>
						<span>But violence bringeth low the fool high-vaunting</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">At last. Cihcia’s spawn, that demon-thing,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Typhoeus hundred-headed, spirit-daunting,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">Escaped not thee, nor yet the Giants’ king,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i6">Whom lightning’s wing</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">And Phoebus’ shafts o’erthrew, though ne’er so strong.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Phoebus received with gracious condescending</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Xenokrates’ son home from Kirrha wending</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">Crowned with Parnassian wreaths and Dorian song.</span>
					</p>
				</section>
				<section id="pythian-8-4">
					<header>
						<p>Strophe 2</p>
					</header>
					<p>
						<span>Ne’er hath she lost the favour of the Graces,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">That isle which aye doth public faith uphold.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>The Aiakids’ glory never she effaces:</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">Her fame abideth flawless as is told</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i6">In songs of old.</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">Rings down the years the music of her name:</span>
						<br/>
						<span>They hymn the nurse of many an heir of glory</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Who reaped renown in battle’s stormy story,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">Who won the crown in many an athlete-game.</span>
					</p>
				</section>
				<section id="pythian-8-5">
					<header>
						<p>Antistrophe 2</p>
					</header>
					<p>
						<span>Yea, yet is she pre-eminent, a nation</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">Of men heroic⁠—but the time would fail</span>
						<br/>
						<span>If I should now essay the consecration</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">To lyre-strings and to song’s soft-rippling gale</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i6">Of all that tale,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">Lest men’s ears should be overfilled the while</span>
						<br/>
						<span>And envy vex us. Let the task yet lying</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Before me speed on wings of poesy flying,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">Thy due, boy, youngest glory of thine isle.</span>
					</p>
				</section>
				<section id="pythian-8-6">
					<header>
						<p>Epode 2</p>
					</header>
					<p>
						<span>Thou in the wrestlers’ strife with feet unfailing</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">Followest thy mother’s brethren glory-hymned:</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Theognotus at Olympia stood prevailing;</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">His, nor Kleitomachus’ fame by thee is dimmed,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i6">The mighty-limbed</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">At Isthmus victor. The Midylid Clan</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Dost thou exalt, who gainest that fruition</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Of glory of which the Prophet spake in vision</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">Before Thebes’ gates, who saw in battle’s van</span>
					</p>
				</section>
				<section id="pythian-8-7">
					<header>
						<p>Strophe 3</p>
					</header>
					<p>
						<span>Them of the Second Race, sons of the Seven,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">Who to avenge their sires from Argos came⁠—</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Spake riddling, while that first fight yet was striven:</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">“The spirit of their sires’ heroic fame</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i6">Brighter shall flame</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">Yet in the sons inborn. I see, I see</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Alkmaion, with the iridescent-glancing</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Dragon on his bright shield, foremost advancing</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">Through Kadmus’ rifted gates victoriously.</span>
					</p>
				</section>
				<section id="pythian-8-8">
					<header>
						<p>Antistrophe 3</p>
					</header>
					<p>
						<span>“But he, who in this war must flee the foemen,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">Hero Adrastus⁠—in that day I see</span>
						<br/>
						<span>He is with tidings of far happier omen</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">Compassed as with a wreath of victory.</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i6">Yet also he</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">In his own house affliction’s cup shall drain;</span>
						<br/>
						<span>For, of the Danaan host shall he, he only</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Gather a slain son’s bones in anguish lonely,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">Ere safe, with folk unscathed, he comes again</span>
					</p>
				</section>
				<section id="pythian-8-9">
					<header>
						<p>Epode 3</p>
					</header>
					<p>
						<span>“By the Gods’ doom to Abas’ street-ways stately.”</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">So Amphiaraus spake. And also I</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Cast on Alkmaion’s tomb, rejoicing greatly,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">My wreaths of song: the dews of poesy</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i6">Thereon shall lie.</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">Neighbour and warder of my wealth is he,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Who met me to earth’s storied centre faring</span>
						<br/>
						<span>With triumph-boding. Dead, he still is sharing</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">In his forefathers’ gift of prophecy.</span>
					</p>
				</section>
				<section id="pythian-8-10">
					<header>
						<p>Strophe 4</p>
					</header>
					<p>
						<span>But thou, Far-smiter, of whose presence haunted</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">Is that world-welcoming fane in Pytho’s glen,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Even there unto our champion hast thou granted</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">The greatest of all joys within the ken</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i6">Of mortal men.</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">In the home-isle, at Artemis’ Feast and thine</span>
						<br/>
						<span>The Fivefold Contest’s prize by thee was given</span>
						<br/>
						<span>To him, for which men passionately have striven.</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">O King, I pray thee, graciously incline</span>
					</p>
				</section>
				<section id="pythian-8-11">
					<header>
						<p>Antistrophe 4</p>
					</header>
					<p>
						<span>Thine eyes on each new song, that still my singing</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">May with the Muses peal in harmony.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Beside our revel-band of sweetly ringing</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">Voices, doth Justice pace. Ye Gods, hear me!</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i6">Oh let there be</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">No jealousy of thee in heavenly eyes,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Xenarkes, nor of thine! If one attaineth</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Glory the which with no long toil he gaineth</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">To many a fool he seemeth to be wise.</span>
					</p>
				</section>
				<section id="pythian-8-12">
					<header>
						<p>Epode 4</p>
					</header>
					<p>
						<span>Who think his own good counsel still begetteth</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">Triumph; yet not with man success is found:</span>
						<br/>
						<span>God is the all-bestower; yea, he setteth</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">On high the low, abaseth the renowned</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i6">Even to the ground.</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">At Megara also didst thou win the prize;</span>
						<br/>
						<span>In Marathon’s valley-nook thy name was glorious,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Aristomenes, and thou didst stand victorious</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">In thine own land at Hera’s contests thrice.</span>
					</p>
				</section>
				<section id="pythian-8-13">
					<header>
						<p>Strophe 5</p>
					</header>
					<p>
						<span>With purpose grim thou hurld’st thee, with fierce straining,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">On four that met thee in the wrestling-ring,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Youths to whom was not given by Fate’s ordaining</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">From Pythian Games thy glad mien home to bring</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i6">Which now I sing;</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">Nor, as each fared back to his mother’s side,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Thrilled them with joy proud laughter softly pealing,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>But from the sneers of foes through byways stealing</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">Heart-stung by their ill-hap in shame they hied.</span>
					</p>
				</section>
				<section id="pythian-8-14">
					<header>
						<p>Antistrophe 5</p>
					</header>
					<p>
						<span>He that in youth-tide’s bloom hath won so lately</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">Glory, is wont to be uplifted high</span>
						<br/>
						<span>On wings of hope; his courage waxeth greatly</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">With lifting pinions: riches’ witchery</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i6">Doth he defy.</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">Yet ah, it is but for one little hour</span>
						<br/>
						<span>That mortal bliss grows, not curse-overtaken.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>In one short hour, as by an earthquake shaken,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">’Tis hurled to the dust by adverse Destiny’s power.</span>
					</p>
				</section>
				<section id="pythian-8-15">
					<header>
						<p>Epode 5</p>
					</header>
					<p>
						<span>What are we?⁠—what not?⁠—things in one day ending!</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">Man is a dream through shadows dimly seen.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>But when a glory shines from God descending</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">Then rests on men a sunbright splendour-sheen</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i6">And life serene.</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">Speed thou, Aegina, mother love-adored,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>This city on her voyage of freedom onward!</span>
						<br/>
						<span>May Zeus’ and Aiakus’ blessing lift her sunward,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">Peleus, Achilles, valiant Telamon ward!</span>
					</p>
				</section>
			</article>
			<article id="pythian-9" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<header>
					<h3 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">IX</h3>
					<p epub:type="bridgehead">For Telesikrates of Kyrene, on his victory in the race in full-armour, 474 <abbr epub:type="se:era">BC</abbr>.</p>
				</header>
				<section id="pythian-9-1">
					<header>
						<p>Strophe 1</p>
					</header>
					<p>
						<span>Fain am I, by the favour of the Graces</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">Deep-girt, to chant aloud the victory won</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">By Telesikrates, Kyrene’s son,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>At Pytho in the brazen-harnessed races.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>His fortune fair I sing, and chant the glory</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">That crowns the city of the flying car,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Kyrene!⁠—Her Apollo, saith the story,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">The bright-haired Son of Leto, caught afar</span>
						<br/>
						<span>From Pelion’s dells with echoing winds enfolden,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>And bare her thence upon his chariot golden,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">That huntress-maid, to where he made her queen</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">Of flocks and harvests in her wide demesne,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>The third part of the great earth’s boundless bosom,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>A root of leafage fair and lovely blossom.</span>
					</p>
				</section>
				<section id="pythian-9-2">
					<header>
						<p>Antistrophe 1</p>
					</header>
					<p>
						<span>Then welcomed Aphrodite silver-footed</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">Her Delian guest, and touched with fingers light</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">The car a God had fashioned starry-bright;</span>
						<br/>
						<span>And o’er their bridal couch, the rapture-fruited,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>The loveliness of shamefastness down-shedding</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">In bonds of mutual love she linked the twain,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>The Archer-god unto the daughter wedding</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">Of Hypseus wide-dominioned, who did reign</span>
						<br/>
						<span>In that day o’er the haughty Lapith nation,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>A hero-son of the third generation</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">Of Ocean’s Lord. Him mid the mountain-dells</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">World-famed where mighty Pindus heavenward swells,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>The child of Earth, Kreusa Fountain-maiden,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Bare to Peneius’ bed with sweetness laden.</span>
					</p>
				</section>
				<section id="pythian-9-3">
					<header>
						<p>Epode 1</p>
					</header>
					<p>
						<span>His child Kjnrene of the arms of snow</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Had little love for pacings to and fro</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Before the loom, nor for feast-revelry</span>
						<br/>
						<span>With maiden-friends home-keeping young as she;</span>
						<br/>
						<span>But warring with bronze darts without surcease,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>And with the hunter’s knife, that princess slew</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Fierce beasts of prey. Ay, wide-spread was the peace</span>
						<br/>
						<span>And restful that her father’s cattle knew.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>But little wasted she upon her eyes</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Of slumber, restfellow that sweetly lies</span>
						<br/>
						<span>On tired ones, when Dawn’s feet prepare to climb the skies.</span>
					</p>
				</section>
				<section id="pythian-9-4">
					<header>
						<p>Strophe 2</p>
					</header>
					<p>
						<span>Where gloomed the forest-solitudes around her</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">She grappled a fierce lion once in fight</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">Spearless. Then He of the far arrow-flight,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Apollo, God of the wide quiver, found her.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Straightway amazement-stricken did he cry on</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">Cheiron, whose rocky hall was hard thereby:</span>
						<br/>
						<span>“Leave thou thine hallowed cave, O Philyra’s scion;</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">Gaze on the mighty strength with wondering eye</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Of yonder woman, how with brow undaunted</span>
						<br/>
						<span>She wages conflict grim! Not terror-haunted</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">Her spirit is in peril’s tempest-rush:</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">Her iron heart no weight of toil can crush!</span>
						<br/>
						<span>What sire begat a child so lion-hearted?</span>
						<br/>
						<span>From what strong kindred is she exile-parted,</span>
					</p>
				</section>
				<section id="pythian-9-5">
					<header>
						<p>Antistrophe 2</p>
					</header>
					<p>
						<span>“That now in hidden folds she should be dwelling</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">Of hills dark-shadowed? She puts to the test</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">Strength limitless! Doth it beseem the Blest</span>
						<br/>
						<span>To lay on her his glorious hands all-quelling</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Even now, or rather to pluck this sweet flower</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">Of spousal rites upon a bridal bed?”</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Came on the Centaur inspiration’s power,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">And in the wisdom of his heart he said,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>“With eyes beneath his kindly brow soft-smiling:</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Phoebus, the keys of Suasion heart-beguiling</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">That ope the portal of love’s sanctities</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">Are from the light withheld. A shame it is</span>
						<br/>
						<span>For Gods or men to leap to love’s fruition</span>
						<br/>
						<span>First in broad day, dishonouring Night’s sweet mission.</span>
					</p>
				</section>
				<section id="pythian-9-6">
					<header>
						<p>Epode 2</p>
					</header>
					<p>
						<span>“Now even thee, whose tongue hath never lied,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Nor can, thy softened mood hath turned aside</span>
						<br/>
						<span>To utter feignèd speech. <em>Thou</em> askest, King,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>The maiden’s lineage!⁠—thou to whom everything</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Is known, all issues whereto all things tend,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>All paths that lead thereto through all the world:</span>
						<br/>
						<span>How many leaves earth up to light doth send</span>
						<br/>
						<span>In spring, the number of the sand-grains hurled</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Down seas and streams when waves wind-driven rise,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>And what shall come to pass and whence⁠—thine eyes</span>
						<br/>
						<span>See clearly. Yet, if I must match me against the wise,</span>
					</p>
				</section>
				<section id="pythian-9-7">
					<header>
						<p>Strophe 3</p>
					</header>
					<p>
						<span>“I will speak on. To this glade sombre-shady</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">Thou cam’st to espouse her; yea, and thou shalt bear</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">Her overseas unto the garden fair</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Of Zeus, where thou shalt make her royal lady</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Of a new city. Thou shalt gather thither</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">An isle-folk round its plain-encircled hill.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>And that land’s queen, content to queen it with her,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">Libya of broad meads, shall with gracious will</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Welcome thy glorious bride in golden bower.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>And there the lady Libya shall, for dower,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">Give her a portion of the land to be</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">Lawful domain beneath her sovereignty,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Land rich in tribute of all plants fruit-laden</span>
						<br/>
						<span>And wildwood-prowlers for thine huntress-maiden.</span>
					</p>
				</section>
				<section id="pythian-9-8">
					<header>
						<p>Antistrophe 3</p>
					</header>
					<p>
						<span>“There shall she bear the son whom thou hast given,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">Whom glorious Hermes in his hour of birth</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">Shall from his mother take, and bear to Earth</span>
						<br/>
						<span>And to the Hours, the splendour-throned in Heaven.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>And while upon their knees thy child is lying</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">Soft-cradled, these between his lips shall pour</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Ambrosia and nectar; so undying,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">Even as a God, shall he be evermore,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>As Zeus, as holy Apollo: sweetest, dearest</span>
						<br/>
						<span>To all his friends, to their hearts ever nearest.</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">Nomeus, ‘flock-warder,’ Agreus, these shall name</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">Thy son, as Aristaius those acclaim.”</span>
						<br/>
						<span>His words spurred on the God’s heart passion-thrilling</span>
						<br/>
						<span>To bring to pass the bridal’s sweet fulfilling.</span>
					</p>
				</section>
				<section id="pythian-9-9">
					<header>
						<p>Epode 3</p>
					</header>
					<p>
						<span>Swift are the acts of Gods, and short their ways</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Whose purposes to their fulfilment race.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>That selfsame day saw Love his goal attain;</span>
						<br/>
						<span>For in a golden chamber were the twain</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Made one, in Libya’s bower, whence she looks down</span>
						<br/>
						<span>On a fair city famed in athlete-rings.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Kameades’ son hath linked Kyrene’s town</span>
						<br/>
						<span>At Pytho with the fair flower fortune brings.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>His victory there hath published wide her name.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>The city of fair girls with glad acclaim</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Greets him who brings to her from Delphi lovely fame.</span>
					</p>
				</section>
				<section id="pythian-9-10">
					<header>
						<p>Strophe 4</p>
					</header>
					<p>
						<span>Great deeds of prowess lure the bard unwitting</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">To lengthen out his strain; yet brevity</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">Grace-clad the wise hear most acceptably.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>In everything to grasp the season fitting</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Crowneth the emprise. Thebe seven-gated</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">Knew it; nor Iolaus failed to tread</span>
						<br/>
						<span>That path. He clave Eurystheus’ head all-hated</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">With the keen sword; but when himself lay dead,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Then Thebe buried him with honour, heaping</span>
						<br/>
						<span>His grave-mound where Amphitryon lay sleeping,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">Her chariot-chief⁠—that tomb wherein did rest</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">His father’s father, he who was the guest</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Of the Sown Men, lords of white steeds, who greeted</span>
						<br/>
						<span>That hero well in Thebe stately-streeted.</span>
					</p>
				</section>
				<section id="pythian-9-11">
					<header>
						<p>Antistrophe 4</p>
					</header>
					<p>
						<span>To him and Zeus did royal-souled Alkmena</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">In love united, in one travail bear</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">The might of twin sons: conquerors they were</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Ever, these twain, in battle’s grim arena.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>A dullard is the man who never raiseth</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">His voice to sing the deeds of Heracles,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>And Dirke’s streams remembereth not nor praiseth</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">Whose Fountain-maid reared him and Iphikles.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Unto these now will I uplift a chanting</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Of triumph-song for that their gracious granting</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">Of vows’ fulfilment. On me may your light,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">O Graces ringing-voiced, shine ever bright!</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Aegina and Nisus’ Hill have heard me singing</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Three times ere this, Kyrene’s praise outringing.</span>
					</p>
				</section>
				<section id="pythian-9-12">
					<header>
						<p>Epode 4</p>
					</header>
					<p>
						<span>And so the impotence that is the shame</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Of tongue-tied bards do I escape. I claim</span>
						<br/>
						<span>That citizens, friends or foes, shall ne’er conceal</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Good work accomplished for the common weal,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>That jealousy set not at nought the rede</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Of that old Sea-god: “Give whole-hearted praise,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>If justice claim it, for each noble deed,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Even to a foe⁠—dispraise is thy disgrace!”</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Our maids at Pallas’ yearly feasts saw thee</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Full oft victorious, and prayed silently,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Telesikrates, that such their spouse or son might be.</span>
					</p>
				</section>
				<section id="pythian-9-13">
					<header>
						<p>Strophe 5</p>
					</header>
					<p>
						<span>In Games Olympian thine was fame far-ringing,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">And in the lists beside Earth’s central stone,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">And in the land thou claimest for thine own:⁠—</span>
						<br/>
						<span>But lo, as I would quench my thirst for singing,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>I hear a voice that speaks of old-time glory</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">That bids me pay a debt, recall the pride</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Of thy forefathers, bids me tell the story</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">How, for the winning of a Libyan bride,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Hasted to Irasa’s city many a lover</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Of a fair-haired one famed the wide world over,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">Drawn thither for Antaius’ daughter’s sake,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">Whom many a gallant kinsman fain would take</span>
						<br/>
						<span>To wife, and many in far countries dwelling;</span>
						<br/>
						<span>For wondrous was her beauty, past all telling.</span>
					</p>
				</section>
				<section id="pythian-9-14">
					<header>
						<p>Antistrophe 5</p>
					</header>
					<p>
						<span>With passionate longing for love’s fruit they sought her,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">This mortal Hebe of the Golden Crown.</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">Howbeit a marriage of more high renown</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Her father purposed for his princess-daughter.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>For he had heard how Danaus meditated</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">At Argos how should spousal-rites be won</span>
						<br/>
						<span>For eight-and-forty daughters yet unmated,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">Ere their life’s noontide should have come and gone,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>And how he compassed this with no delaying.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>For at the limits of the lists arraying</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">The throng of suitors of the maidens sweet,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">He bade them by contention of swift feet</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Decide which several daughter should be given</span>
						<br/>
						<span>To each whose feet had for the guerdon striven.</span>
					</p>
				</section>
				<section id="pythian-9-15">
					<header>
						<p>Epode 5</p>
					</header>
					<p>
						<span>So would that lord of Libya-land decide</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Between those suitors for a princess-bride.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>He set the maid bedecked with gold and gem</span>
						<br/>
						<span>To be the goal and prize, and cried to them</span>
						<br/>
						<span>That he should lead her home who foremost sped</span>
						<br/>
						<span>And touched her robes. Of all that suitor-band</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Alexidamus’ swift feet foremost fled,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>And his hand clasped the noble maiden’s hand,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>And led her through the Nomad horse-array.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Leaves many and wreaths upon him showered they,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Ay, many a victory-plume had he won ere that day.</span>
					</p>
				</section>
			</article>
			<article id="pythian-10" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<header>
					<h3 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">X</h3>
					<p epub:type="bridgehead">For Hippokleas of Thessaly, on his victory in the quarter-mile race for boys, 498 <abbr epub:type="se:era">BC</abbr>. The expenses of the composition and performance of this ode since the winner’s family were not in a position to meet them) were, for the honour of his country, borne by Thorax, head of the Aleuadae Clan, the aristocratic rulers of Larissa. These claimed descent from Perseus, through Heracles.</p>
				</header>
				<section id="pythian-10-1">
					<header>
						<p>Strophe 1</p>
					</header>
					<p>
						<span>Happy is Sparta, and blessed is Thessaly, seeing there reigneth</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">In one and the other a race descended from Heracles.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Is not the vaunt out of season? O nay, for a summons constraineth</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">Me from Pelinna and Pytho and sons of Aleuas, for these</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">Would bring to Hippokleas chanting of victory-choruses.</span>
					</p>
				</section>
				<section id="pythian-10-2">
					<header>
						<p>Antistrophe 1</p>
					</header>
					<p>
						<span>He hath tasted the joy of the athlete: the gorge of Parnassus hath hailed him</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">To the host of the dwellers around as first in the boys’ double-race.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Sweet, O Apollo, man’s work is when God’s strong help hath availed him,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">Sweet in beginning and end; and this he achieved by thy grace;</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">And his prowess inborn in the print of the feet of his father doth pace.</span>
					</p>
				</section>
				<section id="pythian-10-3">
					<header>
						<p>Epode 1</p>
					</header>
					<p>
						<span>For twice in Olympia’s contests in armour of battle-biding</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Ares did Phrikias run: in the mead under Kirrha’s rock hiding</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">Were the feet of the father winged with the might of victory.</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">So ever may fortune fair follow these in the days to be!</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">So may their splendour of wealth ever bloom as the flower-starred lea.</span>
					</p>
				</section>
				<section id="pythian-10-4">
					<header>
						<p>Strophe 2</p>
					</header>
					<p>
						<span>Of the blessings delightsome of Hellas may these win no small measure!</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">No jealous repen tings of Gods turn ever to darkness their light!</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Sooth, a God’s heart only is painless; yet he winneth happiness’ treasure,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">And is hymned of the singers, whose prowess of hands or of feet to the height</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">Of athlete-triumph hath climbed by his courage and bodily might,</span>
					</p>
				</section>
				<section id="pythian-10-5">
					<header>
						<p>Antistrophe 2</p>
					</header>
					<p>
						<span>And he who hath lived to behold a son by Fate’s favour attaining</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">The Pythian crown. Heaven’s towers are for mortals unscaleable aye;</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Yet all havens of splendour a mortal may sail to are his for the gaining</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">But neither the journeying foot nor the galley, quest as they may,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">To the Rest-land Auroral shall find the mvstery-hidden way.</span>
					</p>
				</section>
				<section id="pythian-10-6">
					<header>
						<p>Epode 2</p>
					</header>
					<p>
						<span>Yet did Perseus the war-chief feast in their halls, and their sacrificing</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Behold, as from altars he saw the smoke of ass-hecatombs rising</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">Unto Apollo; yea, and the God hath delight evermore</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">In the festival-banquets of these, and their chants that heavenward soar;</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">And he laugheth beholding the beasts as they wanton with ramp and roar.</span>
					</p>
				</section>
				<section id="pythian-10-7">
					<header>
						<p>Strophe 3</p>
					</header>
					<p>
						<span>Yea, and the Muse from their lives is not exiled, but circlewise winding</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">Dances of maidens sweep, and the voice of the lyre rings clear,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>And the notes of the pipe, and their tresses with golden bay-leaves binding</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">Blithely they banquet, nor eld nor wasting disease draw near</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">To that hallowed folk, but from toil and from clash of sword and spear</span>
					</p>
				</section>
				<section id="pythian-10-8">
					<header>
						<p>Antistrophe 3</p>
					</header>
					<p>
						<span>Dwell they afar, and the tyrannous Goddess of Retribution</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">They escape. To that happy folk of old fared Danae’s son</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Guided on by Athene, and breathing an aweless heart’s resolution.</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">And the Gorgon he slew, and he bare that head which luridly shone</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">With serpents that dealt to the island people a death of stone.</span>
					</p>
				</section>
				<section id="pythian-10-9">
					<header>
						<p>Epode 3</p>
					</header>
					<p>
						<span>So the Gods but accomplish it, nought is too hard for our credence and wonder.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Now stay the car. Muse; from the prow slip the anchor to grapple thereunder</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">The sea-floor, to guard thee against the reef that lurking lies.</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">For the flower-sweet glory of this my song ever restlessly flies</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">From legend to legend, a bee with honey-laden thighs.</span>
					</p>
				</section>
				<section id="pythian-10-10">
					<header>
						<p>Strophe 4</p>
					</header>
					<p>
						<span>O, I trust that, the while the lips of Ephyra’s singers are pouring</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">My sweet strains forth by the side of Peneius, my songs may make</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Hippokleas by age-mates and elders more honoured, with eyes adoring</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">Looked on by maidens young, for his victory-garlands’ sake.</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">Men’s hearts do diverse temptations with longing captive take;</span>
					</p>
				</section>
				<section id="pythian-10-11">
					<header>
						<p>Antistrophe 4</p>
					</header>
					<p>
						<span>But the prize for which each man hath striven, and won, is the soul-alluring</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">Desire of his heart for the hour that is present⁠—yet what the tide</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Of time in a year shall bring, none knoweth. Ah, but enduring</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">Shall be Thorax’ friendship, I trust! On this car of the Muses I ride</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">By the help he hath rendered, a friend to a friend, and a guide to a guide.</span>
					</p>
				</section>
				<section id="pythian-10-12">
					<header>
						<p>Epode 4</p>
					</header>
					<p>
						<span>As gold by the touchstone tried is the soul that from right never falters.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>His noble brethren withal will we praise, the princely exalters</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">Of Thessaly’s commonweal, which ever they magnify.</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">Yea, best in the hands of highborn men doth the piloting lie</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">Of cities wherein their fathers have ruled in the years gone by.</span>
					</p>
				</section>
			</article>
			<article id="pythian-11" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<header>
					<h3 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">XI</h3>
					<p epub:type="bridgehead">For Thrasydaius of Thebes, on his victory in the Boys’ foot-race, 474 <abbr epub:type="se:era">BC</abbr>. Sung at Thebes in a procession to the temple of Apollo.</p>
				</header>
				<section id="pythian-11-1">
					<header>
						<p>Strophe 1</p>
					</header>
					<p>
						<span>Daughters of Kadmus!⁠—Semele borne mid flame</span>
						<br/>
						<span>To Olympus’ streets⁠—White Goddess whose earth-name</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Was Ino, who dost share the hyaline caves</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Of Nereus’ daughters, maidens of the waves;</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Come with the mother of that mighty son</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Heracles: pace to Melia’s temple on.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Come to the treasure-house of tripods golden</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Which Loxias hath in chiefest honour holden,</span>
					</p>
				</section>
				<section id="pythian-11-2">
					<header>
						<p>Antistrophe 1</p>
					</header>
					<p>
						<span>And named the Shrine Ismenian, the home</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Of truthful oracles. Ye children come</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Born of Harmonia! Lo, he doth command</span>
						<br/>
						<span>The host of goddess-heroines of the land</span>
						<br/>
						<span>To gather to his temple, that at fall</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Of eventide ye may with one voice all</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Of holy Themis sing, of Pytho’s visions,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>And of Earth’s Heart that giveth just decisions.</span>
					</p>
				</section>
				<section id="pythian-11-3">
					<header>
						<p>Epode 1</p>
					</header>
					<p>
						<span>Of seven-gated Thebes the glory sing,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>And of the strife in Kirrha’s athlete-ring</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Wherein hath Thrasydaius made renowned</span>
						<br/>
						<span>His sire’s hearth, for the third time garland-crowned</span>
						<br/>
						<span>In those rich fields where Pylades the loyal</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Welcomed the heir to Sparta’s sceptre royal,</span>
					</p>
				</section>
				<section id="pythian-11-4">
					<header>
						<p>Strophe 2</p>
					</header>
					<p>
						<span>Orestes: him his nurse Arsinoe</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Rescued from the fierce hands, the treachery</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Most foul of Klytaemnestra, when she laid</span>
						<br/>
						<span>The young child’s father dead with murderous blade,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>And when with the pale-gleaming bronze she sped</span>
						<br/>
						<span>To Acheron’s shadowy margent of the dead</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Kassandra, Dardanid Priam’s prophet-daughter</span>
						<br/>
						<span>With Agamemnon’s soul, in one red slaughter</span>
					</p>
				</section>
				<section id="pythian-11-5">
					<header>
						<p>Antistrophe 2</p>
					</header>
					<p>
						<span>Wrought by a ruthless woman. Was she stung</span>
						<br/>
						<span>By heavy-handed wrath, to life that sprung</span>
						<br/>
						<span>When on the altar Iphigeneia lay</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Beside Euripus’ sea-gorge, far away</span>
						<br/>
						<span>From her own land? Or was she adultery’s thrall</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Passion-seduced to sin beneath night’s pall?⁠—</span>
						<br/>
						<span>For brides new-wedded hatefullest transgression,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Not to be hidden, made the world’s possession</span>
					</p>
				</section>
				<section id="pythian-11-6">
					<header>
						<p>Epode 2</p>
					</header>
					<p>
						<span>By scandal-gloating neighbours’ tongues: for spite</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Of jealousy clings cloudlike to the height</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Of royal station. Of the common herd</span>
						<br/>
						<span>The sins and follies pass unmarked, unheard.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>So, after ten long years returned, to die on</span>
						<br/>
						<span>His own hearthstone in Amyklae, Atreus’ scion,</span>
					</p>
				</section>
				<section id="pythian-11-7">
					<header>
						<p>Strophe 3</p>
					</header>
					<p>
						<span>And drew to death with him the prophetess-maid,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>When he, avenging Helen’s rape, had laid</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Low all Troy’s homes delectable in flame.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>But that child-head, his son Orestes, came</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Safe to old Strophius, his father’s guest,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Who in the vale dwelt ’neath Parnassus’ crest.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>And the years watched that murderess, till they brought her</span>
						<br/>
						<span>A son to join with hers her paramour’s slaughter.</span>
					</p>
				</section>
				<section id="pythian-11-8">
					<header>
						<p>Antistrophe 3</p>
					</header>
					<p>
						<span>Surely, O friends, where brancheth into twain</span>
						<br/>
						<span>One track, in wilderment have I in vain</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Sought the straight path I travelled hitherto!</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Was it some wind that from the right course blew</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Me, as a boat drifts chartless o’er the sea?</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Nay, Muse, ’tis thine, if thou for silver fee</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Didst covenant to uplift thy voice in singing,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>To send it this way now, now that way ringing,</span>
					</p>
				</section>
				<section id="pythian-11-9">
					<header>
						<p>Epode 3</p>
					</header>
					<p>
						<span>Now to the father’s wreath at Pytho won,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>To Thrasydaius now, his victor son.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Gladness and glory ever shine on these:</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Erewhile they won proud chariot-victories</span>
						<br/>
						<span>When down Olympus’ world-famed course went dashing</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Their horses’ splendour of swiftness sunlike-flashing.</span>
					</p>
				</section>
				<section id="pythian-11-10">
					<header>
						<p>Strophe 4</p>
					</header>
					<p>
						<span>Last, mid disvestured runners forth they came</span>
						<br/>
						<span>In Pytho’s athlete-lists, and put to shame</span>
						<br/>
						<span>A host of Hellene rivals by their speed.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>God grant that I may crave such prowess-meed</span>
						<br/>
						<span>As fits with honour, while life’s tree is green</span>
						<br/>
						<span>May seek things possible. Still have I seen,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>In all states, happiest is the middle station,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>But despotism hath my condemnation.</span>
					</p>
				</section>
				<section id="pythian-11-11">
					<header>
						<p>Antistrophe 4</p>
					</header>
					<p>
						<span>The general good I seek with my whole might.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>So baffled is infatuate envy’s spite,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>When he who hath climbed high holds his spirit’s reins,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>And the brute pride of arrogance restrains.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>So, when his feet draw nigh the last long home,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>More bright and fair to him shall dark death come,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Who to his nearest and his dearest leaveth</span>
						<br/>
						<span>A good name⁠—costlier treasure none receiveth.</span>
					</p>
				</section>
				<section id="pythian-11-12">
					<header>
						<p>Epode 4</p>
					</header>
					<p>
						<span>’Tis this hath raised above the common throng</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Iolaus Iphikles’ son renowned in song;</span>
						<br/>
						<span>So Kastor’s might lives on in poesy’s strain,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>And thine, King Polydeukes, god-born twain,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Who in the tomb lie through one day of sorrow,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>On whom Heaven’s glory shineth on each morrow.</span>
					</p>
				</section>
			</article>
			<article id="pythian-12" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<header>
					<h3 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">XII</h3>
					<p epub:type="bridgehead">For Midas of Akragas, on his victory in flute-playing, 490 <abbr epub:type="se:era">BC</abbr>.</p>
				</header>
				<section id="pythian-12-1">
					<header>
						<p>Strophe 1</p>
					</header>
					<p>
						<span>Lover of splendour, above all cities beauty-dowered,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">Persephone’s home, who dost dwell by Akragas’ water-meads green</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Sheep-pastured, throned on thine hill of the ramparts stately-towered,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">With kindly favour of Gods and of men accept, O Queen,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>This crown that from Pytho is brought thee: the glory of Midas hailing</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">Welcome him, him who is champion of Hellas in that flute-strain</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Which Pallas Athene devised when she wove into music the wailing</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">Of the Gorgons fierce, their death-dirge over a sister slain,</span>
					</p>
				</section>
				<section id="pythian-12-2">
					<header>
						<p>Strophe 2</p>
					</header>
					<p>
						<span>The lament that she heard from the awful maids’ snake-heads outshrieking,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">As it poured from their lips forth laden with bitterest anguish of grief,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>When Perseus had smitten the third, their sister, with bronze death-wreaking,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">And bare thence doom to Seriphus’ island-folk and their chief.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Yea, and the wondrous daughters of Phorkys he spoiled of vision,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">And bitter for Polydektes his bridal-gift he made,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Bitter his mother’s thraldom, her spousals’ enforced decision,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">With the head of Medusa the weirdly beautiful, shorn by the blade</span>
					</p>
				</section>
				<section id="pythian-12-3">
					<header>
						<p>Strophe 3</p>
					</header>
					<p>
						<span>Of Danae’s son, of the shower of gold, as the legend telleth,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">Begotten. But when the Maid had released from his labours’ strain</span>
						<br/>
						<span>The man she befriended, she framed the manifold music that welleth</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">From the flute, that her harmonies so might mimic the shrieks of pain</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Wild and high from Euryale’s ravening jaws outshrilling.</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">Her devising it was, but she gave it to mortal men to possess;</span>
						<br/>
						<span>And the “Strain of the Many Heads” she named it, the spirit-thrilling</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">Kindler of hearts to the contests whereinto multitudes press,</span>
					</p>
				</section>
				<section id="pythian-12-4">
					<header>
						<p>Strophe 4</p>
					</header>
					<p>
						<span>Notes poured thick and fast through the thin-beaten bronze and the reeds upspringing</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">By the burg of the Graces, the city of fair dance-lawns in the close</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Of the Nymph of Kephisus, true witnesses they of the dance soft-swinging.</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">If bliss among mortals there be, ’tis not won but with travail-throes.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Yet a God may accomplish it even to-day⁠—but there is no fleeing</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">That which of Fate is foredoomed: but surely a time shall be</span>
						<br/>
						<span>When a Power that smites with a stroke all-sudden, past man’s foreseeing,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">Shall grant thee a boon unhoped for, yet hold back another from thee.</span>
					</p>
				</section>
			</article>
		</section>
	</body>
</html>
