<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-GB">
	<head>
		<title>The Olympian Odes</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:non-fiction">
		<section id="the-olympian-odes" epub:type="division z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">The Olympian Odes</h2>
			<section id="olympian-1" epub:type="chapter">
				<header>
					<h3>
						<span epub:type="label">Olympian</span>
						<span epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">I</span>
					</h3>
					<p epub:type="bridgehead">For Hiero, ruler of Syracuse, on a victory won by his horse Pherenikus, 476 <abbr epub:type="se:era">BC</abbr>.</p>
				</header>
				<section id="olympian-1-1">
					<header>
						<p>Strophe 1</p>
					</header>
					<p>
						<span>Chiefest is water of all things, for streaming</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">Therefrom all life and existence came;</span>
						<br/>
						<span>And all proud treasure of princes the gleaming</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">Splendour of gold outshines, as the flame</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Of a great fire flings through the night its rays.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>But, heart of mine, if thou fain wouldst praise</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">Triumphs in athlete-contests won,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Search not, when day with his glory is glowing,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>For a radiant star more life-bestowing</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">In the whole void sky, than the kingly sun.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Even so shall we find no brighter crown</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">Than Olympia giveth whereof to sing;</span>
						<br/>
						<span>For thence doth the chant of high renown</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">O’er the spirits of bards its perfume fling,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>When, the praise of Kronion in song resounding,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Unto Hiero’s blest hearth wealth-abounding</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i4">The hymn of his praise they bring.</span>
					</p>
				</section>
				<section id="olympian-1-2">
					<header>
						<p>Antistrophe 1</p>
					</header>
					<p>
						<span>Hiero!⁠—yea, for the rod of his power</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">Is a sceptre of righteousness stretched o’er the land</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Of the myriad flocks; and the choice of the flower</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">Of chivalry ever is plucked by his hand.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Yea, and he also is garlanded</span>
						<br/>
						<span>With the blossom of song enstarring his head,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">The song that with gladsome voices now</span>
						<br/>
						<span>We singers chant, at the banquet meeting</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Of the Prince who giveth us friendship’s greeting.</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">Now, O my Muse, from its rest take thou</span>
						<br/>
						<span>The lyre that is strung to the Dorian strain,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">If the glory of fleet Pherenikus, he</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Who triumphed in Pisa’s Olympian plain,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">Haply with rapture of song thrilled thee,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>When flashed in the course by Alpheus’ river</span>
						<br/>
						<span>His body by lash or by goad touched never,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i4">And wedded to victory</span>
					</p>
				</section>
				<section id="olympian-1-3">
					<header>
						<p>Epode 1</p>
					</header>
					<p>
						<span>His lord, the ruler of Syracuse-town,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">The king who joyeth in gallant steeds.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Flasheth afar his name’s renown,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">Flasheth from Sicily far oversea</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">Where Pelops, the exile from Lydia’s meads,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">Founded a hero-colony⁠—</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Pelops, beloved of the Earth-enfolder,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">Poseidon the strong, when the Fate of the Thread</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Drew him resplendent with ivory shoulder</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">From the undefiled laver, whom men deemed dead.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>There be marvels full many; and fables hoary</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">With inventions manifold broidered o’er</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Falsify legend, I wot, with a story</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i4">Wherein truth liveth no more.</span>
					</p>
				</section>
				<section id="olympian-1-4">
					<header>
						<p>Strophe 2</p>
					</header>
					<p>
						<span>But the Grace of Beauty, which aye is weaving</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">All manner of charm round the souls of men,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Taketh these tales unworthy believing,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">And arrays them in honour: so cometh it then</span>
						<br/>
						<span>That man with unwavering credence clings</span>
						<br/>
						<span>To a false-feigned tale of impossible things.</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">But the after-days are the witnesses</span>
						<br/>
						<span>That be wisest. Reverent speech beseemeth</span>
						<br/>
						<span>The mortal who uttereth that which he deemeth</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">Of the Gods⁠—so shall his reproach be less.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>O Tantalus’ son, I will speak not as they</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">Who told thy story in days of old!</span>
						<br/>
						<span>But thy father bade thee a guest that day</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">To a banquet arrayed by the righteous-souled</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Upon Sipylus’ loved height⁠—so he tendered</span>
						<br/>
						<span>To the Gods requital for boons they had rendered.</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i4">On a sudden the chariot of gold</span>
					</p>
				</section>
				<section id="olympian-1-5">
					<header>
						<p>Antistrophe 2</p>
					</header>
					<p>
						<span>Of the Lord of the Trident gleaming splendid,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">Whose soul was with love for thy youth overcome,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Bare thee, as up through the blue ye ascended,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">To imperial Zeus’s glory-home,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Whither also came in the after-day</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Ganymedes ravished from earth away</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">In halls celestial the nectar to pour.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>But when viewless thus from the earth they had caught thee,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Nor the questers that far and near had sought thee</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">To the arms of thy mother could thee restore,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Then spake some neighbour in envious spite</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">A whispered slander of sin and shame,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>How that over the boiling water’s might</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">Which hissed in the bronze that bestrode the flame</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Did they carve thy flesh with the knife, and seethe it,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>And served at the feast, and⁠—dare lips breathe it?⁠—</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i4">That the God-guests ate of the same!</span>
					</p>
				</section>
				<section id="olympian-1-6">
					<header>
						<p>Epode 2</p>
					</header>
					<p>
						<span>But impossible is it for me to call</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">Any Blest One man-eater⁠—with loathing and scorn</span>
						<br/>
						<span>I recoil! O, the profit is passing small</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">That the dealer in slander hath ofttimes found.</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">But if ever a man on the earth was born</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">Whom the Watchers from Heaven with honour crowned,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>That man was Tantalus: yet of their favour</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">No profit he had, nor of that high bliss.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>But the man’s proud stomach was drunk with its savour</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">And gorged with pride; and by reason of this</span>
						<br/>
						<span>He drew on him ruin utter-crushing;</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">For Zeus hung o’er him a huge black scaur,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>And he cowers from it aye on his head down-rushing</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i4">From happiness exiled far.</span>
					</p>
				</section>
				<section id="olympian-1-7">
					<header>
						<p>Strophe 3</p>
					</header>
					<p>
						<span>And there unto torment fettered for ever</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">Living on, living on in eternal despair</span>
						<br/>
						<span>He abides with the Three<a href="endnotes.xhtml#note-2" id="noteref-2" epub:type="noteref">2</a> on whom hope dawns never,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">He who from the feast of the Gods could dare</span>
						<br/>
						<span>To steal the ambrosia and nectar whereby</span>
						<br/>
						<span>They had given him immortality,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">That the guests of his wine-cup might revel thereon!</span>
						<br/>
						<span>But who thinketh to hide his evil doing</span>
						<br/>
						<span>From God, he errs to his bitter ruing!</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">So then the Immortals sent back his son</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Exiled to earth from the heavenly home,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">Thenceforth with the sons of a day to abide.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>But in process of time, when Pelops was come</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">To the flower-bright season of life’s springtide,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>When the soft rose-tint of his cheek ’gan darken,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>To the whisper of love did his spirit hearken,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i4">And he dreamed of the world-famed bride</span>
					</p>
				</section>
				<section id="olympian-1-8">
					<header>
						<p>Antistrophe 3</p>
					</header>
					<p>
						<span>Hippodameia, the glorious daughter</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">Of the Lord of Pisa, a prize for him</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Who could win her. Alone by the surf-white water</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">Of the sea he stood in the darkness dim.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>To the Thunder-voiced he cried o’er the wave,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>To the Lord of the Trident mighty to save:</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">And lo, at his side did the God appear.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>And “O Poseidon,” he spake imploring,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>“If the gifts of the Cyprian Queen’s outpouring</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">To thy spirit, O King, be in any wise dear,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>His bronze lance let not Oenomaus lift</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">To mine hurt, but cause me to Elis to ride</span>
						<br/>
						<span>On a god-given chariot passing swift:</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">There throne thou me by victory’s side.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>For lovers by that spear merciless-slaying</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Have died thirteen, and he still is delaying</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i4">To bestow his child as a bride.</span>
					</p>
				</section>
				<section id="olympian-1-9">
					<header>
						<p>Epode 3</p>
					</header>
					<p>
						<span>In the path doth a mighty peril lie;</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">To the craven soul no welcome it gives.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>But, seeing a man must needs once die,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">Wherefore should I unto old age screen</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">From peril a life that only <em>lives</em>,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">Sitting nameless and fameless in darkness unseen,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>In the deeds of the valiant never sharing?</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">Nay, lies at my feet the challenge now:</span>
						<br/>
						<span>I will accept it for doing and daring!</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">Good speed to mine heart’s desire grant thou!”</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Not fruitless the cry of his heart’s desiring</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">Was uttered. The God heard gracious-souled,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>And crowned him with honour. Winged steeds untiring</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i4">He gave, and a chariot of gold.</span>
					</p>
				</section>
				<section id="olympian-1-10">
					<header>
						<p>Strophe 4</p>
					</header>
					<p>
						<span>So he won for his bride that maiden peerless;</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">For her terrible father he overcame.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>And she bare to him six sons battle-fearless,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">Captains of war-hosts, thirsting for fame.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>And his portion assured hath Pelops still</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Where the priests the blood of the sacrifice spill;</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">And unto his tomb resorteth the throng</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Of strangers from far who have heard his story.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>From his grave-mound his spirit beholdeth the glory</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">Of the mighty Olympian strife of the strong</span>
						<br/>
						<span>In the course that from Pelops its name hath ta’en,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">Wherein be contending the swift to run</span>
						<br/>
						<span>And the thews that be mighty in wrestling-strain.</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">And whoso therein hath the victory won,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Thereafter on through his life-days ever</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Sweetly his peace shall flow as a river</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i4">Blissfully gliding on</span>
					</p>
				</section>
				<section id="olympian-1-11">
					<header>
						<p>Antistrophe 4</p>
					</header>
					<p>
						<span>For those Games’ sake. Yea, the good that unceasing</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">On man’s lot daily as dew droppeth down</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Is that which to each is most well-pleasing.</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">Now is it my bounden duty to crown</span>
						<br/>
						<span>With a strain wherein hoof-beats triumphant ring</span>
						<br/>
						<span>In Aeolian mood Sicilia’s King.</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">And hereof is my spirit assured past doubt</span>
						<br/>
						<span>That amidst all men on the wide earth dwelling</span>
						<br/>
						<span>There is found no host whom with prouder-swelling</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">Notes in many a winding bout</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Of noble song I may glorify,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">Yea, none more learned in honour’s lore,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>None who showeth therein more potency.</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">The God who guardeth thee watcheth o’er</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Thine hopes and thine aims, that no evil assail thee;</span>
						<br/>
						<span>And if⁠—O nay, but he cannot fail thee!⁠—</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i4">I trust ere long once more</span>
					</p>
				</section>
				<section id="olympian-1-12">
					<header>
						<p>Epode 4</p>
					</header>
					<p>
						<span>To chant a triumph than all more sweet,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">Inspiration-wafted, as one that flies</span>
						<br/>
						<span>In a chariot, on paths of utterance meet,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">Till I win unto Kronos’ Hill sunbright.</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">O yea, in my Muses’ quiver lies</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">A song-arrow winged for stronger flight.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>By diverse paths men upward aspire:</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">Earth’s highest summit by kings is attained.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Thou therefore look to attain no higher</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">Than earth. Be it thine on the height thou hast gained</span>
						<br/>
						<span>To pace mid splendour of royal achieving</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">Thy life through: mine be it no less long</span>
						<br/>
						<span>To consort with victors, from Hellas receiving</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i4">The world o’er praise for my song.</span>
					</p>
				</section>
			</section>
			<section id="olympian-2" epub:type="chapter">
				<header>
					<h3>
						<span epub:type="label">Olympian</span>
						<span epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">II</span>
					</h3>
					<p epub:type="bridgehead">For Theron, ruler of Akragas in Sicily, on a victory won in the chariot-race, in 476 <abbr epub:type="se:era">BC</abbr>.</p>
				</header>
				<section id="olympian-2-1">
					<header>
						<p>Strophe 1</p>
					</header>
					<p>
						<span>Songs, lords of the lyre! what God shall we hymn?⁠—what hero’s praises?⁠—</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i4">What man’s fame publish afar?</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Pisa doth Zeus own; Heracles stablished Olympia’s races</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i4">With the regal spoils of his war;</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Theron, who honours the guest, whose four steeds raced victorious,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Akragas’ stay, let us chant, full flower of an ancestry glorious,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i4">His city’s saviour-star.</span>
					</p>
				</section>
				<section id="olympian-2-2">
					<header>
						<p>Antistrophe 1</p>
					</header>
					<p>
						<span>Toils bravely his fathers endured, and a hallowed home by the river</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i4">They reared: they were Sicily’s eye.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>And to crown their inborn worth, Fair Fortune attended them, giver</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i4">Of wealth and of dignity.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Son of Kronos and Rhea, enthroned in Olympus, thou lord of the choicest</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Of contests by Alpheus’ ford, guard, since in our song thou rejoicest,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i4">For their sons ever graciously</span>
					</p>
				</section>
				<section id="olympian-2-3">
					<header>
						<p>Epode 1</p>
					</header>
					<p>
						<span>Their fatherland-soil! When for right or for wrong hath been woven the tissue</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Of our deeds, not Time the father of all can reverse the issue.</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i4">Yet oblivion may come of the past</span>
						<br/>
						<span>With the dawn of a happier day; for overmastered and slain</span>
						<br/>
						<span>By the sunlight of happiness oft is memory’s rankling pain,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i4">When broad and high at the last</span>
					</p>
				</section>
				<section id="olympian-2-4">
					<header>
						<p>Strophe 2</p>
					</header>
					<p>
						<span>Prosperity grows by the fiat of God. Yea, of Kadmus’ daughters</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i4">This thing I have said proved true:⁠—</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Sore anguish they suffered, yet mightier blessings from out the waters</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i4">Of affliction the stricken ones drew.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Mid thunder-crash Semele perished, yet lives in the heavenly star-land;</span>
						<br/>
						<span>And Pallas and Zeus and her son, who is crowned with the ivy-garland,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i4">Enfold her with love ever new.</span>
					</p>
				</section>
				<section id="olympian-2-5">
					<header>
						<p>Antistrophe 2</p>
					</header>
					<p>
						<span>With the Sea-maids, the daughters of Nereus, to Ino a life unending</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i4">In the deep is ordained for aye.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>But to mortals no date is appointed whereon death’s bolt descending</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i4">Shall smite; nor can any man say</span>
						<br/>
						<span>When one day, child of the sun, shall in calm peace close with unbroken</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Blessing. With sorrow and joy run life’s streams, giving no token</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i4">How their mutable courses will stray.</span>
					</p>
				</section>
				<section id="olympian-2-6">
					<header>
						<p>Epode 2</p>
					</header>
					<p>
						<span>So Destiny, she who the line of the fathers of Theron hath guided</span>
						<br/>
						<span>To happiness, yet for their god-given bliss hath also provided</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i4">In its season a bitter reverse,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Since the hour when met in his journeying Laïus was, and killed</span>
						<br/>
						<span>By his doom-driven son, and the word that from Pytho went forth was fulfilled,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i4">The old-time prophecy-curse.</span>
					</p>
				</section>
				<section id="olympian-2-7">
					<header>
						<p>Strophe 3</p>
					</header>
					<p>
						<span>Swift Erinys beheld it, and slew by hands with a brother’s blood gory</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i4">His warrior sons. When died</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Polyneikes, Thersander was left to win in a new war glory,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i4">The Adrastids’ saviour and pride.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>From him these trace their descent; and the son of a prince most meetly</span>
						<br/>
						<span>With all praises of song triumphant and lyres outpealing sweetly</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i4">This day shall be magnified.</span>
					</p>
				</section>
				<section id="olympian-2-8">
					<header>
						<p>Antistrophe 3</p>
					</header>
					<p>
						<span>Olympia’s guerdon he won, and at Pytho and Isthmus the Graces,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i4">Who his kindred have evermore blessed,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Brought to his brother the crowns of the twelve-course four-horse races.</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i4">Ay, triumph to pain bringeth rest.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Riches with nobleness graced of many things bring fruition,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>And they kindle the deep-glowing fire of the huntress of honour, Ambition,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i4">Within their possessor’s breast,</span>
					</p>
				</section>
				<section id="olympian-2-9">
					<header>
						<p>Epode 3</p>
					</header>
					<p>
						<span>A lodestar that beacons afar, by whose light men steer most surely,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>If he who doth hold by it knoweth what shall be⁠—that they which impurely</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i4">Here lived, shall when they have died</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Suffer the penalty: sins that in Zeus’s realm of light</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Were committed shall One judge there in the underworld Kingdom of Night,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i4">And their awful doom shall decide.</span>
					</p>
				</section>
				<section id="olympian-2-10">
					<header>
						<p>Strophe 4</p>
					</header>
					<p>
						<span>But through sunlitten nights and days a life of bliss untoiling</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i4">Is ordained for the righteous-souled.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>No more for a meagre pittance they labour the land sore moiling,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i4">Nor on stormy seas are they rolled;</span>
						<br/>
						<span>But with them that be honoured of Gods, who had pleasure in leal oathkeeping,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>They have joy of a tearless life, while the wicked are endlessly reaping</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i4">Sin-harvests too dread to behold.</span>
					</p>
				</section>
				<section id="olympian-2-11">
					<header>
						<p>Antistrophe 4</p>
					</header>
					<p>
						<span>But they that through those three lives have endured, their spirits refraining</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i4">From sin upon each side death,<a href="endnotes.xhtml#note-3" id="noteref-3" epub:type="noteref">3</a></span>
						<br/>
						<span>These traverse the pathway of Zeus, to the Tower of Kronos attaining,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i4">Where the breezes of Ocean breathe</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Round the Isles of the Blest, where flowers all-golden like flames are glowing,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Which are drooping from trees of splendour, or float on the flood soft-flowing;</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i4">And their heads and their hands they enwreathe,</span>
					</p>
				</section>
				<section id="olympian-2-12">
					<header>
						<p>Epode 4</p>
					</header>
					<p>
						<span>As it standeth by just Rhadamanthus decreed, the eternal assessor</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Of Kronos the husband of Rhea, of her who is throned possessor</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i4">Of dominion the universe o’er.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>And Peleus and Kadmus are numbered amidst the glorified there;</span>
						<br/>
						<span>And the heart of Zeus by Thetis’ petition was swayed, that she bare</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i4">Achilles to that blest shore,</span>
					</p>
				</section>
				<section id="olympian-2-13">
					<header>
						<p>Strophe 5</p>
					</header>
					<p>
						<span>Him who slew the invincible Hector, and Troy’s strong pillar did shiver,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i4">And of whom was Kyknus slain</span>
						<br/>
						<span>And the Dawn-queen’s Aethiop son. Many swift shafts lie in my quiver;</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i4">To the wise is their meaning plain;</span>
						<br/>
						<span>For the common herd need they interpreters. Who is by nature discerning</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Is the poet inspired; but the vehement babblers of other men’s learning</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i4">Croak vanity⁠—crows be the twain!⁠—<a href="endnotes.xhtml#note-4" id="noteref-4" epub:type="noteref">4</a></span>
					</p>
				</section>
				<section id="olympian-2-14">
					<header>
						<p>Antistrophe 5</p>
					</header>
					<p>
						<span>At the hallowed eagle of Zeus! O my soul, on the bow be thou aiming⁠—</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i4">And at whom in all love wilt thou speed</span>
						<br/>
						<span>The renown-giving arrow? To Akragas send thou it, boldly proclaiming⁠—</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i4">Bidding Truth of thine oath take heed⁠—</span>
						<br/>
						<span>That through years five-score no city on earth hath been known to rear on</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Her breast any son more kindly in spirit to friends than Theron,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i4">None of more liberal deed.</span>
					</p>
				</section>
				<section id="olympian-1-15">
					<header>
						<p>Epode 5</p>
					</header>
					<p>
						<span>Yet praise is by spite ever dogged, wherein never is justice abiding,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>But from grasping envy it springs; with its slanders it fain would be hiding</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i4">In darkness the good deeds done</span>
						<br/>
						<span>By the noble of heart. But, as no man can number the great sea’s sands,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>So the joys on his fellow-men showered by Theron with lavish hands,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i4">Who telleth the tale of them? None!</span>
					</p>
				</section>
			</section>
			<section id="olympian-3" epub:type="chapter">
				<header>
					<h3>
						<span epub:type="label">Olympian</span>
						<span epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">III</span>
					</h3>
					<p epub:type="bridgehead">For Theron of Akragas, on the same victory as the preceding ode, which was probably chanted in the palace of Theron; whereas this was sung in the temple of the Twin Brethren.</p>
				</header>
				<section id="olympian-3-1">
					<header>
						<p>Strophe 1</p>
					</header>
					<p>
						<span>Oh Tyndarids, lords of all guest-welcoming,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">Oh Helen of the tresses beauty-crowned,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Take pleasure in my praises, when I sing</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i4">Akragas far-renowned,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Chanting her son’s Olympian victory,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">The glory of his tireless-footed team.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>The Muse hath thrilled me with new harmony</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Of wedded song and dance, in revelry</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i4">Where Dorian sandals gleam.</span>
					</p>
				</section>
				<section id="olympian-3-2">
					<header>
						<p>Antistrophe 1</p>
					</header>
					<p>
						<span>Garlands of victory twined in Theron’s hair</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">Exact of me this debt that Heaven ordains</span>
						<br/>
						<span>For Ainesidamus’ son in order fair</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i4">To blend the varying strains</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Of lyres with voice of flutes and ordering</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">Of chanted words; and Pisa bids proclaim</span>
						<br/>
						<span>His glory⁠—Pisa, poesy’s well-spring</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Whence, by the Gods inspired, the great songs ring</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i4">That give men deathless fame,</span>
					</p>
				</section>
				<section id="olympian-3-3">
					<header>
						<p>Epode 1</p>
					</header>
					<p>
						<span>Even they about whose hair the silvery-gleaming</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">Adorning of the olive-leaf is laid</span>
						<br/>
						<span>By the Aetolian judge’s righteous deeming</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i4">The victor’s brows to shade,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>According unto Heracles’ ancient hest.</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">From Ister’s shadowy springs he brought this tree,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>When fared Amphitryon’s son on perilous quest</span>
						<br/>
						<span>And gave Olympia’s games this fairest, best</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i4">Trophy of victory.</span>
					</p>
				</section>
				<section id="olympian-3-4">
					<header>
						<p>Strophe 2</p>
					</header>
					<p>
						<span>His courteous speech that Norland people swayed⁠—</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">The folk who serve Apollo⁠—to bestow</span>
						<br/>
						<span>To his true-hearted prayer for Zeus’s glade,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i4">Whither all Hellenes go,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>A shadowing tree, a universal boon,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">A wreath for prowess of the mighty given.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>When hallowed were Zeus’ altars, lo, the Moon</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Of midmonth flashed her splendour plenilune</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i4">Full in the face of Even.</span>
					</p>
				</section>
				<section id="olympian-3-5">
					<header>
						<p>Antistrophe 2</p>
					</header>
					<p>
						<span>Then for those great Games he ordained for ever</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">Just judgment and a Five-year Festival</span>
						<br/>
						<span>By the steep banks of Alpheus’ hallowed river.</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i4">But of fair trees and tall</span>
						<br/>
						<span>In Kronian Pelops’ glen, that chosen place,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">His garden-close, was as a desert bare.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Him-seemed it lay unscreened beneath the blaze</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Of scorching Helios’ arrow-darting rays.</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i4">Wherefore he yearned to fare</span>
					</p>
				</section>
				<section id="olympian-3-6">
					<header>
						<p>Epode 2</p>
					</header>
					<p>
						<span>To Ister’s land, where She of the swift horses,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">Queen Leto’s Child, received him graciously</span>
						<br/>
						<span>When from the hills and winding watercourses</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i4">He came of Arcady,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Sped on Eurystheus’ mission forth to find⁠—</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">By his sire’s doom, wherefrom is no appeal⁠—</span>
						<br/>
						<span>The Orthian Wood-queen’s golden-antlered hind,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Vowed to her by Taÿgete, and signed</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i4">With consecration’s seal.</span>
					</p>
				</section>
				<section id="olympian-3-7">
					<header>
						<p>Strophe 3</p>
					</header>
					<p>
						<span>And in that chase he looked upon the land</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">That sheltered lies behind the North-wind cold,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>And saw its olive-trees. There did he stand</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i4">And marvelled to behold,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>And dearly yearned to enring with those same trees</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">The goal round which twelve times swift horses strain.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Graciously still to these festivities</span>
						<br/>
						<span>He comes: with him be godlike presences,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i4">Even Leda’s scions twain.</span>
					</p>
				</section>
				<section id="olympian-3-8">
					<header>
						<p>Antistrophe 3</p>
					</header>
					<p>
						<span>These charged he with the Great Games’ ordering</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">Ere hence he passed to heavenly halls afar,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>The struggle of strong men, the sweep and swing</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i4">Of the swift-rushing car.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>“The Emmenids and Theron Fame hath crowned</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">This day!” my soul constraineth me to cry,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>“Fame given by Tyndareus’ Sons the steed-renowned,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Since unto these of all men most they abound</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i4">In hospitality,</span>
					</p>
				</section>
				<section id="olympian-3-9">
					<header>
						<p>Epode 3</p>
					</header>
					<p>
						<span>“With hearts of reverence rendering due measure</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">Of service to the Gods for ever blest.”</span>
						<br/>
						<span>As water chiefest is, and of all treasure</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i4">Gold is held goodliest,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>So Glory’s pinnacle doth Theron gain</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">By his high prowess: yea, his fame hath won</span>
						<br/>
						<span>To Heracles’ pillars! Farther to attain</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Wise and unwise all fruitlessly should strain,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i4">Nor press I vainly on.</span>
					</p>
				</section>
			</section>
			<section id="olympian-4" epub:type="chapter">
				<header>
					<h3>
						<span epub:type="label">Olympian</span>
						<span epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">IV</span>
					</h3>
					<p epub:type="bridgehead">For Psaumis of Camarina, in Sicily, on a victory won in the chariot-race, 452 <abbr epub:type="se:era">BC</abbr>.</p>
				</header>
				<section id="olympian-4-1">
					<header>
						<p>Strophe 1</p>
					</header>
					<p>
						<span>Zeus, hurler of thunderbolts tireless-winging,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">Most Highest, returneth thy Feast-tide fair</span>
						<br/>
						<span>To send me to wed with the lyre subtle-ringing</span>
						<br/>
						<span>My song: of the chiefest of all Games singing</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">To the victor’s triumph my witness I bear.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Yea, the hearts of the good are with joy ever leaping</span>
						<br/>
						<span>When friends a harvest of triumph are reaping.</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">O Kronos’ Son, whose dominion is o’er</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">Etna, the wind-scourged burden laid</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">On Typho the demon of heads five-score,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">Receive thou this revel-procession arrayed</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">For a victorv won by the Graces’ aid.</span>
					</p>
				</section>
				<section id="olympian-4-2">
					<header>
						<p>Antistrophe 1</p>
					</header>
					<p>
						<span>For its chant is a record for ever abiding</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">Of wide-prevailing achievement’s renown,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>On-ushering olive-crowned Psaumis, as riding</span>
						<br/>
						<span>His chariot he hasteth, aglow for dividing</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">His fame with his own Camarina-town.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>May our prayers be graciously heard in heaven</span>
						<br/>
						<span>As we supplicate blessings yet to be given</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">Unto him who is strenuous ever to train</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">The steed, who with wide arms welcomes the guest,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">The pure-hearted patriot who strives to attain</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">Peace⁠—truth do I speak from an unfeigned breast!</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">Of man is the trial the one proof-test.</span>
					</p>
				</section>
				<section id="olympian-4-3">
					<header>
						<p>Epode 1</p>
					</header>
					<p>
						<span>By such trial it was that Klymenus’ son<a href="endnotes.xhtml#note-5" id="noteref-5" epub:type="noteref">5</a></span>
						<br/>
						<span>Silenced the Lemnian women’s taunting</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">Who mocked at his tresses grey;</span>
						<br/>
						<span>For the foot-race in armour of bronze he won.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>To Hypsipyle then with no vain vaunting,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">As he passed to be crowned, did he say:</span>
						<br/>
						<span>“Lo there, my fleetness of foot have ye seen!</span>
						<br/>
						<span>And mine hands be as strong, and mine heart as keen.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Ay, and not seldom silver-hoary</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Show the tresses of young men, long ere the story</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">Hath been told of their life’s spring-day.”</span>
					</p>
				</section>
			</section>
			<section id="olympian-5" epub:type="chapter">
				<header>
					<h3>
						<span epub:type="label">Olympian</span>
						<span epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">V</span>
					</h3>
					<p epub:type="bridgehead">For Psaumis of Camarina, on a victory won in the mule-chariot-race, (probably) in 448 <abbr epub:type="se:era">BC</abbr>.</p>
				</header>
				<section id="olympian-5-1">
					<header>
						<p>Strophe 1</p>
					</header>
					<p>
						<span>O Camarina, bright daughter of Ocean, with glad spirit greet</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Him who the crown of Olympian achievement and glory most sweet</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Brings for his gifts to thee won by his car-team’s unwearying feet,</span>
					</p>
				</section>
				<section id="olympian-5-2">
					<header>
						<p>Antistrophe 1</p>
					</header>
					<p>
						<span>Psaumis! O nurse of a nation, to magnify thee hath he raised</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Altars, twin altars twice three, where at feasts of the Blessèd Ones blazed</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Steers that were slain; and for five days the goals of the race-course they grazed,</span>
					</p>
				</section>
				<section id="olympian-5-3">
					<header>
						<p>Epode 1</p>
					</header>
					<p>
						<span>Chariots of horses and mules, and swift coursers. To thee consecrated</span>
						<br/>
						<span>All his proud glory was, and to his sire and the burg new-created.</span>
					</p>
				</section>
				<section id="olympian-5-4">
					<header>
						<p>Strophe 2</p>
					</header>
					<p>
						<span>Back from Oenomaus’ home and from Pelops’ dear dwelling he brings</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Songs unto Pallas Protectress of Cities; her precinct he sings,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Sings of thy river Oanis, the mere that thine highland enrings.</span>
					</p>
				</section>
				<section id="olympian-5-5">
					<header>
						<p>Antistrophe 2</p>
					</header>
					<p>
						<span>Hallowèd Hipparis sings he that quencheth thy citizens’ thirst,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Floating down fast for rebuilding thee trees in his hill-cradle nursed,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>So that from darkness the light of new life on thy commonwealth burst.</span>
					</p>
				</section>
				<section id="olympian-5-6">
					<header>
						<p>Epode 2</p>
					</header>
					<p>
						<span>Labour and cost for all noble achievement in one must be blended:</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Veiled is the issue in risk; but success is for wisdom commended.</span>
					</p>
				</section>
				<section id="olympian-5-7">
					<header>
						<p>Strophe 3</p>
					</header>
					<p>
						<span>Cloud-hidden Saviour, O Zeus who art throned on the Kronian hill-crest,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Honourest Alpheus’ flood and the cave under Ida’s green breast,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Suppliant I come to thee, voicing through Lydian flutes my request:</span>
					</p>
				</section>
				<section id="olympian-5-8">
					<header>
						<p>Antistrophe 3</p>
					</header>
					<p>
						<span>O let this city with chivalry’s glory be aye magnified!</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Thou too, Olympian victor, whose god-nurtured steeds are thy pride,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Unto a peaceful old age mayst thou win with thy sons at thy side.</span>
					</p>
				</section>
				<section id="olympian-5-9">
					<header>
						<p>Epode 3</p>
					</header>
					<p>
						<span>If as a well-watered garden thy bliss be, and if thou desire not</span>
						<br/>
						<span>More, with thy wealth and thine honours content⁠—unto godhead aspire not!</span>
					</p>
				</section>
			</section>
			<section id="olympian-6" epub:type="chapter">
				<header>
					<h3>
						<span epub:type="label">Olympian</span>
						<span epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">VI</span>
					</h3>
					<p epub:type="bridgehead">For Agesias, a citizen both of Syracuse and of Stymphalus in Arcadia, on a victory won by his charioteer, Phintis, in the mule-car race, 468 or 472 <abbr epub:type="se:era">BC</abbr>. Sung in Stymphalus, owing to the jealousy of his success shown (1. 74) by those of the opposite faction in Syracuse.</p>
				</header>
				<section id="olympian-6-1">
					<header>
						<p>Strophe 1</p>
					</header>
					<p>
						<span>’Neath our song’s forecourt-rooftree pillars golden</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">Will we uprear; a palace shall it seem.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>’Tis meet the forefront shine out far-beholden</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">Of work that hath such splendour-flashing theme.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>The victor at Olympia, who withal</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">Is treasurer of Zeus’s oracle-altar,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Who is co-founder of the glorious wall</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">Of Syracuse⁠—shall his song-praises falter?</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Share not the joy his fellow-burghers all?</span>
					</p>
				</section>
				<section id="olympian-6-2">
					<header>
						<p>Antistrophe 1</p>
					</header>
					<p>
						<span>Such sandal⁠—let the son of Sostratus know it⁠—</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">Gleams on his foot. Deeds without peril brought</span>
						<br/>
						<span>To pass on land or sea win from no poet</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">Honour; but of each high achievement wrought</span>
						<br/>
						<span>With hard toil, many the recorders are.</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">Thy deeds, Agesias, that same praise hath followed</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Which justly Adrastus spake and published far</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">Of Amphiaraus, when the earth had swallowed</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Oïkleus’ son and his bright battle-car.</span>
					</p>
				</section>
				<section id="olympian-6-3">
					<header>
						<p>Epode 1</p>
					</header>
					<p>
						<span>When on the seven great pyres the dead lay burning,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">Before Thebes’ gates the son of Talaos cried:</span>
						<br/>
						<span>“For one that is not here mine heart is yearning,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">Eye of mine host, good seer and warrior tried!”</span>
						<br/>
						<span>And this same praise in song processional</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">To Syracuse’ son is rendered with all fitness.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>I, who hate strife and disputation’s gall,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">With a great oath to him I bear my witness:</span>
						<br/>
						<span>The sweet-voiced Muses sanction it withal.</span>
					</p>
				</section>
				<section id="olympian-6-4">
					<header>
						<p>Strophe 2</p>
					</header>
					<p>
						<span>Phintis, thy mighty mule-team harness straightway,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">That we may speed along a clear highway</span>
						<br/>
						<span>The car, that I may reach the ancestral gateway</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">Whence came his race. None know so well as they</span>
						<br/>
						<span>To find the track, who at Olympia won</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">Crowns: wherefore unto them it well beseemeth</span>
						<br/>
						<span>That wide the doors of song should now be thrown.</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">For Pitane-ward, to where Eurotas gleameth</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Must I in season due this day begone.</span>
					</p>
				</section>
				<section id="olympian-6-5">
					<header>
						<p>Antistrophe 2</p>
					</header>
					<p>
						<span>Now Pitane bare, by Lord Poseidon fathered,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">Evadne of the violet hair, men say,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>But hid her shame ’neath vesture-folds upgathered,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">Till she might send her maidens thence away,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Bidding them bear her babe to Eilatus’ son</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">Who at Phaisane ruled in hill-girt places</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Arcadian, and his lot by Alpheus won.</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">There was Evadne nurtured: in the embraces</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Of Phoebus her love’s story was begun.</span>
					</p>
				</section>
				<section id="olympian-6-6">
					<header>
						<p>Epode 2</p>
					</header>
					<p>
						<span>She could not for her full time hide the blossom</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">Of a God’s love from Aipytus: keen dread</span>
						<br/>
						<span>And wrath no words might utter racked his bosom.</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">For light in darkness Pytho-ward he sped.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>She laid the while her girdle crimson-twined</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">’Neath boughs dark-shadowing, and her silver ewer.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>And there she bore a boy of godlike mind;</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">For golden-haired Apollo drew unto her</span>
						<br/>
						<span>The Fates, and Eileithyia travail-kind.</span>
					</p>
				</section>
				<section id="olympian-6-7">
					<header>
						<p>Strophe 3</p>
					</header>
					<p>
						<span>So from her womb in painless birth outleaping</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">Iamus came. Grief-stricken on the ground</span>
						<br/>
						<span>She left him. Came two bright-eyed serpents creeping</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">By the Gods’ counsel; softly coiling round</span>
						<br/>
						<span>They fed him with the sweet dews of the bee.</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">But when the king from rocky Pytho riding</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Came, he asked all his household eagerly:</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">“Where is the babe Evadne bare in hiding?</span>
						<br/>
						<span>For fathered of Apollo’s self is he;</span>
					</p>
				</section>
				<section id="olympian-6-8">
					<header>
						<p>Antistrophe 3</p>
					</header>
					<p>
						<span>“A prophet shall he be all men excelling</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">To this folk: nevermore shall fail his race,”</span>
						<br/>
						<span>But they, “Of him have we heard no man telling,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">Nor seen him”⁠—yet the babe was born five days!</span>
						<br/>
						<span>But in a pathless reed-brake, oversprayed</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">With gold and purple splendours was he lying,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Which pansy-petals on his soft flesh rayed.</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">“So shall he,” spake his mother prophesying,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>“Bear this name that through all time shall not fade.”<a href="endnotes.xhtml#note-6" id="noteref-6" epub:type="noteref">6</a></span>
					</p>
				</section>
				<section id="olympian-6-9">
					<header>
						<p>Epode 3</p>
					</header>
					<p>
						<span>Now when to fruitage of youth golden-pinioned</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">He won, to Alpheus’ mid-stream he strode</span>
						<br/>
						<span>’Neath the night-stars, and on the wide-dominioned,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">His grandsire, called, and Delos’ Archer-god,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Praying, “Let honour nation-fostering rest</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">Upon mine head!” And answer made his father</span>
						<br/>
						<span>With voice infallible to his request:</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">“Arise, and to that place where all men gather</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Follow, my son, obeying my behest.”</span>
					</p>
				</section>
				<section id="olympian-6-10">
					<header>
						<p>Strophe 4</p>
					</header>
					<p>
						<span>So reached they Kronion’s<a href="endnotes.xhtml#note-7" id="noteref-7" epub:type="noteref">7</a> steep rock sunward-soaring.</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">There prophecy’s twin treasure gave his sire⁠—</span>
						<br/>
						<span>To hear his voice unswerving truth outpouring</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">First: then, when Heracles, that soul of fire,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Should come, when he, the Alkaïds’ seed renowned,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">Should found his God-sire’s Feast thronged by all nations,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Of all world-games with chiefest honour crowned,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">Then high on Zeus’s altar of oblations</span>
						<br/>
						<span>A second oracle he bade him found.</span>
					</p>
				</section>
				<section id="olympian-6-11">
					<header>
						<p>Antistrophe 4</p>
					</header>
					<p>
						<span>Thereafter through all Hellas famed in story</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">Were Iamus’ sons, and prospered. High emprise</span>
						<br/>
						<span>They honour; so they tread the path of glory.</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">The achievement proves the man: but envious eyes</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Of slanderers follow still him on whose head</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">The Grace rains beauty, who before all other</span>
						<br/>
						<span>His chariot round the twelvefold course hath sped.</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">Agesias, if the forbears of thy mother,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Who ’neath Kyllene had their old homestead,</span>
					</p>
				</section>
				<section id="olympian-6-12">
					<header>
						<p>Epode 4</p>
					</header>
					<p>
						<span>With prayer and sacrifice ceased not adoring</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">Heaven’s herald Hermes, him in whom begun</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Be Games and ended, who is honour pouring</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">On Arcady’s hero-land⁠—He, Sostratus’ son,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>With his deep-thundering Sire, thy bliss fulfils.</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">My tongue is poesy’s whetstone shrilly-sounding!</span>
						<br/>
						<span>That fancy all my willing spirit thrills</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">With breathings beauty-rippling. Flower-abounding</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Metope in Stymphalus ringed of hills,</span>
					</p>
				</section>
				<section id="olympian-6-13">
					<header>
						<p>Strophe 5</p>
					</header>
					<p>
						<span>My ancestress, bare Thebe chariot-glorious.</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">I’ll sip her dear springs, and for warriors twine</span>
						<br/>
						<span>A song-wreath rainbow-hued. Thy choir victorious,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">O Aeneas,<a href="endnotes.xhtml#note-8" id="noteref-8" epub:type="noteref">8</a> teach to chant the Maid divine</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Hera, and know that none in after days</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">With scoffed “<em>Boeotian swine!</em>” our ear abuses!</span>
						<br/>
						<span>A messenger thou art whose faith all praise,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">O cryptic herald-staff of bright-haired Muses,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Sweet mixing-bowl of royal-ringing lays!</span>
					</p>
				</section>
				<section id="olympian-6-14">
					<header>
						<p>Antistrophe 5</p>
					</header>
					<p>
						<span>Bid Syracuse and Ortygia’s praise be chanted,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">By Hiero with righteous sceptre swayed</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Who honours Her whose feet on furrows planted</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">Make red the com, the great Feast of the Maid</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Of the White Steeds, and Zeus throned on the height</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">Of Etna honours. Lyre and song sweet-pealing</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Know Hiero well. His fortune may the flight</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">Of time not wreck! With welcome love-revealing,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>King, greet this song that chants Agesias’ might,</span>
					</p>
				</section>
				<section id="olympian-6-15">
					<header>
						<p>Epode 5</p>
					</header>
					<p>
						<span>Which from Stymphalus’ mother-town comes winging,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">From home to home⁠—Sicilia, Arcady!</span>
						<br/>
						<span>’Tis good the ship on anchors twain be swinging</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">In night of storm. May Heaven propitiously</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Grant either folk high glory without stain.</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">In thy protection, Sea-lord King, enfolden</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Straight onward may he sail: guard him from bane,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">Spouse of the Sea-queen of the distaff golden,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>And bless the gladsome flower of this my strain.</span>
					</p>
				</section>
			</section>
			<section id="olympian-7" epub:type="chapter">
				<header>
					<h3>
						<span epub:type="label">Olympian</span>
						<span epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">VII</span>
					</h3>
					<p epub:type="bridgehead">For Diagoras of Rhodes, on his victory in boxing, 464 <abbr epub:type="se:era">BC</abbr>. The Rhodians placed this ode, engraved in letters of gold, in their temple of Athena at Lindus.</p>
				</header>
				<section id="olympian-7-1">
					<header>
						<p>Strophe 1</p>
					</header>
					<p>
						<span>As a father with wealth-laden hand uplifteth a cup</span>
						<br/>
						<span>With the flashing dew of the joy-giving wine brimmed up,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>And pledgeth therein the youth who hath won for a bride</span>
						<br/>
						<span>His daughter, and therewith giveth to him, to bear</span>
						<br/>
						<span>From the old home unto the new, that golden pride</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Of his treasures, and maketh the fair feast yet more fair,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>And his kinsman envied of all friends banqueting there</span>
						<br/>
						<span>For the marriage that joins hearts, one evermore to abide;</span>
					</p>
				</section>
				<section id="olympian-7-2">
					<header>
						<p>Antistrophe 1</p>
					</header>
					<p>
						<span>So send I the Song-queens’ gift, the nectar outpoured</span>
						<br/>
						<span>From my spirit, its vintage of sweetness, a chant to record</span>
						<br/>
						<span>The triumph of guerdon-winners, their victory</span>
						<br/>
						<span>At Olympia and Pytho gained in the athlete-strife.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Whom praiseful report companioneth, happy is he!</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Now on one, now another the Grace that enricheth life</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Propitiously looks, and with manifold music of fife</span>
						<br/>
						<span>And of lyre sweet-echoing breathes on him melody.</span>
					</p>
				</section>
				<section id="olympian-7-3">
					<header>
						<p>Epode 1</p>
					</header>
					<p>
						<span>To the sound of the lyre and the pipe on-sailing</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Homeward I come with Diagoras hailing</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">Aphrodite’s Daughter, the Bride of the Sun,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Sea-girdled Rhodes, to a man fair-fighting</span>
						<br/>
						<span>And strong giving glory, whose clenched hand smiting</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">By Alpheus and Castaly garlands hath won.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>And his father I praise, who in justice excelleth,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>And in Rhodes triple-citied mid warriors dwelleth</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">Nigh Asia’s foreland that seaward doth run.</span>
					</p>
				</section>
				<section id="olympian-7-4">
					<header>
						<p>Strophe 2</p>
					</header>
					<p>
						<span>From their line’s first father beginning, I fain would upraise,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>From Tlepolemus, this mine herald-song of praise,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>The common right this of Heracles’ puissant race;</span>
						<br/>
						<span>For these be descended from Zeus on the father’s side⁠—</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Ay, this is their boast!⁠—on the mother’s their blood they trace</span>
						<br/>
						<span>To Amyntor through Astydameia Tlepolemus’ bride.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Thick clouds of delusion the truth from men’s hearts hide:</span>
						<br/>
						<span>This thing would we find, yet aye it eludes our chase,</span>
					</p>
				</section>
				<section id="olympian-7-5">
					<header>
						<p>Antistrophe 2</p>
					</header>
					<p>
						<span>What is best for a man to attain both now and at last.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>For the founder of this land smote in his passionate haste</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Alkmena’s base-born brother a deadly blow</span>
						<br/>
						<span>With his olive-wood staff, as forth Likymnius came</span>
						<br/>
						<span>From Midea’s bower; for his spirit with wrath was aglow.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>In the city of Tiryns befell that sin and shame.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Yea, the feet of the wise be misled when the soul is aflame</span>
						<br/>
						<span>With wrath. To the oracle fratricide-stained did he go.</span>
					</p>
				</section>
				<section id="olympian-7-6">
					<header>
						<p>Epode 2</p>
					</header>
					<p>
						<span>And the Golden-haired spake from his shrine sweet-breathing:</span>
						<br/>
						<span>“Thou must voyage afar o’er a sea surf-seething,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">From the shore of Lerna in exile sped,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>To a sea-ringed land of pasture, where showered</span>
						<br/>
						<span>By the King of the Gods omnipotent-powered</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">Was a golden snow, when forth of the head</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Of Zeus by the axe of Hephaistus sundered</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Athena leapt, and her shout far thundered,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">That Heaven and Earth-mother quaked with dread.”</span>
					</p>
				</section>
				<section id="olympian-7-7">
					<header>
						<p>Strophe 3</p>
					</header>
					<p>
						<span>Hyperion’s Son, the God who bringeth the day,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Commanded his children:<a href="endnotes.xhtml#note-9" id="noteref-9" epub:type="noteref">9</a> “See that your debt ye repay.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Of all men be ye first to uprear in your isle in my sight</span>
						<br/>
						<span>To the Goddess an altar: her godhead do ye revere</span>
						<br/>
						<span>With offerings holy, filling the souls with delight</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Of Allfather and Her of the thunderous-crashing spear.”</span>
						<br/>
						<span>It is Reverence, Forethought’s daughter, that maketh dear</span>
						<br/>
						<span>To the spirits of men high courage and joy of the fight.</span>
					</p>
				</section>
				<section id="olympian-7-8">
					<header>
						<p>Antistrophe 3</p>
					</header>
					<p>
						<span>Yet there cometh Oblivion’s wildering mist, to misguide</span>
						<br/>
						<span>The hearts of men, and to cause them to swerve aside</span>
						<br/>
						<span>From the deed’s straight path; and so it befell that these</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Not bearing the seed of flame to the altar drew nigh.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>So with fireless rites did they plant those hallowed trees</span>
						<br/>
						<span>On their citadel’s height. Yet Zeus drew over their sky</span>
						<br/>
						<span>A fire-hued cloud whence rained gold plenteously,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>And the Grey-eyed made them in all craft-mysteries</span>
					</p>
				</section>
				<section id="olympian-7-9">
					<header>
						<p>Epode 3</p>
					</header>
					<p>
						<span>Unrivalled; for on their highways were gleaming</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Things living and moving to outward seeming,<a href="endnotes.xhtml#note-10" id="noteref-10" epub:type="noteref">10</a></span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">So that great was their glory. Yea, craft that doth show</span>
						<br/>
						<span>No semblance of false pretence excelleth</span>
						<br/>
						<span>In the eyes of the wise. Now a legend telleth</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">How that Zeus and the Deathless drew lots to know</span>
						<br/>
						<span>How shared should the earth be. Rhodes was unrisen</span>
						<br/>
						<span>From the wide sea’s breast, but in darkling prison</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">Of abysses of brine lay far below.</span>
					</p>
				</section>
				<section id="olympian-7-10">
					<header>
						<p>Strophe 4</p>
					</header>
					<p>
						<span>But since in the place where they gathered the Sun-god was not,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>None for that stainless Divine One had drawn a lot;</span>
						<br/>
						<span>And so, when he spake of it, Zeus was minded again</span>
						<br/>
						<span>To cast the lots; but Helios would not: he said</span>
						<br/>
						<span>That he saw deep under the face of the hoary main</span>
						<br/>
						<span>A land upgrowing fast from its rocky bed,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>A land that for myriad dwellers should bring forth bread,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Should rejoice in its sheep-flocks whitening hill and plain.</span>
					</p>
				</section>
				<section id="olympian-7-11">
					<header>
						<p>Antistrophe 4</p>
					</header>
					<p>
						<span>Eftsoons unto Lachesis golden-tired spake he:</span>
						<br/>
						<span>“Uplift thou thine hands, and swear in sincerity</span>
						<br/>
						<span>The Gods’ great Oath, and pledge thee with Kronos’ Son</span>
						<br/>
						<span>That the isle that shall be sent up into heaven’s light</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Shall be mine head’s guerdon of honour while time shall run.”</span>
						<br/>
						<span>And the word of truth that from Lachesis’ lips took flight</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Was fulfilled in the end. Grew up, as a flower blooms bright,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>That isle from the roUing darkness of water won.</span>
					</p>
				</section>
				<section id="olympian-7-12">
					<header>
						<p>Epode 4</p>
					</header>
					<p>
						<span>He possesseth it. Sire of the sun-arrows gleaming,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>The breath of whose steeds is a flame outstreaming.</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">With Rhodos the Isle-nymph there he lay:</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Seven sons he begat, who in years forgotten</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Were wisest of men; and of one were begotten</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">Ialysus, Lindus, Kameirus; and they</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Of their father’s land made threefold division,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Neither any transgressed that righteous partition;</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">And after them named be their homes to this day.</span>
					</p>
				</section>
				<section id="olympian-7-13">
					<header>
						<p>Strophe 5</p>
					</header>
					<p>
						<span>There standeth an altar, a sweet recompense for the grief</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Of his fall before Troy, to Tlepolemus battle-chief</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Of Tirynthians: as to a God do they sacrifice</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Victims, the reek of whose burning floats far round.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>And at athlete-strife in his name is awarded the prize.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>There twice were Diagoras’ brows with flower-wreaths bound.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>And at Isthmus the famed four times, and at Nemea crowned</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Once and again, and at crag-built Athens twice.</span>
					</p>
				</section>
				<section id="olympian-7-14">
					<header>
						<p>Antistrophe 5</p>
					</header>
					<p>
						<span>At Argos the victors’ bronze shield knoweth him well;</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Memorials in Thebes and Arcadia his glory tell;</span>
						<br/>
						<span>At Pellene in games Boeotian the prize did he gain;</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Six times in Aegina he conquered; in Megara</span>
						<br/>
						<span>The column of stone doth chant none other strain.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>O Father Zeus, who holdest omnipotent sway</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Over wild Atabyrium’s ridges, honour this day</span>
						<br/>
						<span>The victory-hymn that use and wont ordain!</span>
					</p>
				</section>
				<section id="olympian-7-15">
					<header>
						<p>Epode 5</p>
					</header>
					<p>
						<span>And the hero whose hands have so gallantly striven,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Unto him be all worshipful honour given</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">Alike of the stranger and citizen.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>For he treadeth the path that from insolence turneth:</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Great lessons bequeathed by his fathers he learneth</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">By his true heart taught. Thou, hide not from men</span>
						<br/>
						<span>His fame who from Kallianax’ blood springeth.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>With the Eratids’ joy lo, all Rhodes ringeth!</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">Yet the winds in an hour may be veering again.</span>
					</p>
				</section>
			</section>
			<section id="olympian-8" epub:type="chapter">
				<header>
					<h3>
						<span epub:type="label">Olympian</span>
						<span epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">VIII</span>
					</h3>
					<p epub:type="bridgehead">For Alkimedon of Aegina, on his victory in the Boys’ wrestling-match, 460 <abbr epub:type="se:era">BC</abbr>. His brother, Timosthenes, and his trainer, Melesias the Athenian, have a share in the praises of the ode.</p>
				</header>
				<section id="olympian-8-1">
					<header>
						<p>Strophe 1</p>
					</header>
					<p>
						<span>Mother of contests golden-crowned, O Queen</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">Of truth, Olympia, where from sacrifice</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Diviners seek the will of Zeus to glean,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">Who hurls white-flickering lightnings through the skies,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>To wot if he hath any word of grace</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">For men whose hearts yearn hotly to attain</span>
						<br/>
						<span>To high achievement, and a breathing-space</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i4">From toil to gain.</span>
					</p>
				</section>
				<section id="olympian-8-2">
					<header>
						<p>Antistrophe 1</p>
					</header>
					<p>
						<span>This he vouchsafes to reverent prayer and vow.</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">O Pisan precinct fair with olive-lines,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Welcome this victory-procession thou,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">And the crown-bearing! Bright his glory shines</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Whom splendour of thy guerdon shall attend!</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">Ay, diverse boons to diverse men be given,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>And many paths to happiness ascend</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i4">By grace of Heaven.</span>
					</p>
				</section>
				<section id="olympian-8-3">
					<header>
						<p>Epode 1</p>
					</header>
					<p>
						<span>Timosthenes, to Zeus, who hath in keeping</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">Thine house, thee and thy brother Destiny</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">Allotted: He at Nemea honoured thee,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>And Kronos’ Hill saw glory’s harvest-reaping,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">Alkimedon’s Olympian victory.</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">Goodly of presence, not by deeds he shamed</span>
						<br/>
						<span>His beauty! He, in wresthng-bout victorious,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">Aegina of far-sweeping oars proclaimed</span>
						<br/>
						<span>His home. There Saviour Themis, throned all-glorious</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">With Guest-ward Zeus, is most with honour named.</span>
					</p>
				</section>
				<section id="olympian-8-4">
					<header>
						<p>Strophe 2</p>
					</header>
					<p>
						<span>Far-reaching issues, whose decision still</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">Shifteth, with mind unwarped to judge of these</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Fairly, is hard: yet sure the Immortals’ will</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">Ordained this island rampired by the seas</span>
						<br/>
						<span>To be for strangers out of every clime</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">A god-reared pillar of strength, land of the free⁠—</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Oh may the years in this work through all time</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i4">Toil tirelessly!⁠—</span>
					</p>
				</section>
				<section id="olympian-8-5">
					<header>
						<p>Antistrophe 2</p>
					</header>
					<p>
						<span>This isle committed unto Dorian hands</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">To be Heaven’s stewards, since, in Aiakus’ days,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>When Phoebus and the Girder of all lands</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">A tower-coronal for Troy would raise,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>And as their fellow-builder bade him come</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">To rear that wall, which should, when wars awoke,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Breathe out, when battle brought her day of doom,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i4">Wild-billowing smoke.</span>
					</p>
				</section>
				<section id="olympian-8-6">
					<header>
						<p>Epode 2</p>
					</header>
					<p>
						<span>Scarce was it built, when, with eyes lurid-glaring,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">Three dragons leapt to scale its ramparts high.</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">Now twain of these fell back, and suddenly</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Died, writhing as in impotent despairing:</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">But the third leapt in with fierce battle-cry.</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">That portent Phoebus pondered; then spake he:</span>
						<br/>
						<span>“Aiakus, where thine hands reared this stone wonder,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">There breached and taken Pergamus shall be,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>As this sign sent down by the Lord of Thunder,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">Zeus, Kronos’ Son, revealeth unto me.</span>
					</p>
				</section>
				<section id="olympian-8-7">
					<header>
						<p>Strophe 3</p>
					</header>
					<p>
						<span>“This shall thine house accomplish. Troy shall fall</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">Stormed by thy son and thy fourth in descent.”</span>
						<br/>
						<span>So plainly spake the God, and therewithal</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">To Xanthus and the fleet-horsed Amazons went,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>And unto Ister speeding fast his car.</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">With golden team the Trident-wielder fares</span>
						<br/>
						<span>To Isthmus oversea, and Aiakus far</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i4">To Aegina bears.</span>
					</p>
				</section>
				<section id="olympian-8-8">
					<header>
						<p>Antistrophe 3</p>
					</header>
					<p>
						<span>Thence, to behold his glorious festival,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">To Corinth’s mountain-ridge he bore him on.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>No praise of song is sweet alike to all:</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">If I retrace all fame Melesias<a href="endnotes.xhtml#note-11" id="noteref-11" epub:type="noteref">11</a> won</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Through boys, no stone at me let envy fling!</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">I sing of honours no less high attained</span>
						<br/>
						<span>At Nemea, and of crowns pankratian sing</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i4">By his men gained.</span>
					</p>
				</section>
				<section id="olympian-8-9">
					<header>
						<p>Epode 3</p>
					</header>
					<p>
						<span>To teach is no hard task for him who knoweth;</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">But who unlearned would teach, a fool is he,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">For wit untrained hath no stability.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>But this Melesias best of all men showeth</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">How with the strong to strive victoriously,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">Teacheth what training shall to triumph guide</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Our champion to repeat the oft-told story,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">In those great Games, of longed-for victory’s pride.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Now hath Alkimedon achieved that glory⁠—</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">Melesias’ thirtieth triumph published wide!</span>
					</p>
				</section>
				<section id="olympian-8-10">
					<header>
						<p>Strophe 4</p>
					</header>
					<p>
						<span>By God’s grace, and by his own prowess he</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">Hath vanquished striplings four. Ha! not for him,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>But them, to steal back home shamefacedly</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">Shrinking from taunting tongues through bypaths dim!</span>
						<br/>
						<span>His victory hath thrilled his old grandsire</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">With strength that o’er eld’s frailty triumpheth.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>For he that hath attained his heart’s desire</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i4">Forgetteth death.</span>
					</p>
				</section>
				<section id="olympian-8-11">
					<header>
						<p>Antistrophe 4</p>
					</header>
					<p>
						<span>I must awaken Memory, I wis,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">To tell the glory of old champions’ might,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>The Blepsiads’ conquering sons: the sixth crown this</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">That wreathes their brows from those games garland-dight.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Yea, their dead fathers have their share therein,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">When due memorial rites are not forgot.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>The grace of honour living kinsmen win</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i4">The dust hides not.</span>
					</p>
				</section>
				<section id="olympian-8-12">
					<header>
						<p>Epode 4</p>
					</header>
					<p>
						<span>The song by Hermes’ child, Glad-tidings, chanted</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">Shall Iphion hear, his bright Olympic fame,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">And to Kallimachus shall tell the same,<a href="endnotes.xhtml#note-12" id="noteref-12" epub:type="noteref">12</a></span>
						<br/>
						<span>The glory Zeus to this old House hath granted.</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">With triumph on triumph may he crown their name,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">And aye avert affliction’s bitter blow!</span>
						<br/>
						<span>And, for the glory in their lot, may never</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">God’s jealousy make Nemesis their foe.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>May he exalt them and their country, ever</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">Vouchsafing them a life unvexed of woe.</span>
					</p>
				</section>
			</section>
			<section id="olympian-9" epub:type="chapter">
				<header>
					<h3>
						<span epub:type="label">Olympian</span>
						<span epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">IX</span>
					</h3>
					<p epub:type="bridgehead">For Ephannostus of Opus, in Eastern Locris, on his victory in wrestling, 468 <abbr epub:type="se:era">BC</abbr>.</p>
				</header>
				<section id="olympian-9-1">
					<header>
						<p>Strophe 1</p>
					</header>
					<p>
						<span>Archilochus’ chant of the sweet voice singing</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">The Olympian hymn of victory,<a href="endnotes.xhtml#note-13" id="noteref-13" epub:type="noteref">13</a></span>
						<br/>
						<span>With its threefold measure of triumph outringing,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">Sufficed to lead onward the revelry</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">To the Hill of Kronos, as paced along</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">Epharmostus amidst of his comrade-throng.</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">But now with such soul-stirring arrows of song</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">As in these our days fly fittingly</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Shot from the Muses’ bows far-ranging,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">Sing praises, my soul, unto Zeus, whose hand</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Hurls red-glowing lightnings sin-avenging;</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">And the holy foreland of Elis-land</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">Praise thou, the land which long agone</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">Pelops the hero, Lydia’s son,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">With Hippodameia for dowry won,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">The glorious clasp of her wedlock-band.</span>
					</p>
				</section>
				<section id="olympian-9-2">
					<header>
						<p>Antistrophe 1</p>
					</header>
					<p>
						<span>And a sweet feathered shaft on the bowstring laying</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">Pytho-ward shoot thou: not to the ground</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Shall thy words fall, when thy fingers are straying</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">O’er the quivering strings of the lyre, to sound</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">The praise of a lord of the wrestling-ring</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">Who from Opus the famed came journeying;</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">And the glory of that good town do thou sing</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">And the praise of her champion triumph-crowned.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>’Tis a city that Themis and Safety-bestower,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">Her child Fair Governance, won for their own;</span>
						<br/>
						<span>And in knightly deeds she blooms as a bower;</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">For by Castaly’s fountain her praise is known,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">And Alpheus murmureth her renown,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">Where blow fair flowers for victory’s crown</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">To shine on the brows of the mother-town</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">Of Lokris, with trees girt stately-grown.</span>
					</p>
				</section>
				<section id="olympian-9-3">
					<header>
						<p>Epode 1</p>
					</header>
					<p>
						<span>The light of my song shall fierily blaze</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">O’er this city so dear unto me,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>And swifter than high-mettled steed can race</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">Or a white-winged galley can flee,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>I will speed this story of Opus’ glory</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">Far, far over land, over sea,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>If by Destiny guided my hand essay</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">To gather fruit and flower</span>
						<br/>
						<span>In the Graces’ garden of gardens, for they</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">All things delightsome shower.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Whether hero or poet one be, he doth owe it</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">To Heaven’s all-gracious power.</span>
					</p>
				</section>
				<section id="olympian-9-4">
					<header>
						<p>Strophe 2</p>
					</header>
					<p>
						<span>How else could Heracles’ arm have wielded</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">Mace against Trident in battle-strain?⁠—</span>
						<br/>
						<span>When by Poseidon was Pylos shielded,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">And the Sea-god pressed on the Hero amain,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">When fast did the arrows of Phoebus fly</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">As the silver bow rang terribly,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">Neither Hades refrained him from swinging on high</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">His staff, till his blows flashed down like rain⁠—</span>
						<br/>
						<span>The staff wherewithal through the cavernous portals</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">Of his mansion he leadeth, that Underworld-king,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>The shadowy forms of perished mortals:⁠—</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">Nay, nay, this slander afar from thee fling,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">O mouth of mine! Him who dares impeach</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">The Gods, him hatefullest wisdom doth teach!</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">O yea, for untimely bold-mouthed speech</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">Doth with strains insensate of madness ring.</span>
					</p>
				</section>
				<section id="olympian-9-5">
					<header>
						<p>Antistrophe 2</p>
					</header>
					<p>
						<span>Babble not thou in witless folly</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">Of battle and war of Immortals, nor dare</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Blaspheme them! Nay, to the city holy</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">Of Protogeneia thy song-gift bear,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">Telling how by His dooming who wields evermore</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">The flickering lightning, the thunder’s roar,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">Deukalion and Pyrrha long of yore</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">Fixed their first habitation there,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>When down from Parnassus they came, and unmated</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">Of Aphrodite in wedlock-yoke,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Out of the stones of the field created</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">A race that should be thenceforth one folk;</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">And from stones were they named, that stone-born race.</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">Awaken for these thy clear-ringing lays!</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">O yea, old wine well mayest thou praise;</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">But ’tis song’s fresh flowers that our praises provoke.</span>
					</p>
				</section>
				<section id="olympian-9-6">
					<header>
						<p>Epode 2</p>
					</header>
					<p>
						<span>Out of old days cometh a legend which saith</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">That the great deep’s fountains rained</span>
						<br/>
						<span>On the dark earth’s bosom a deluge of death,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">Till, by counsels of Zeus restrained,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>The flood-tide sinking with waters shrinking</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">Swiftly was seaward drained.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>And this stone-born generation’s sons</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">Your grey forefathers were,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>All valiant bearers of shields of bronze,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">Whom Iapetus’ daughters bare</span>
						<br/>
						<span>When they made affiance with Kronos’ scions,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">And kings of their blood reigned there,</span>
					</p>
				</section>
				<section id="olympian-9-7">
					<header>
						<p>Strophe 3</p>
					</header>
					<p>
						<span>Till the Lord of Olympus, from earth upraising</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">The daughter of Opus, wafted his bride</span>
						<br/>
						<span>To a lone spot meet for a God’s embracing</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">Mid Mainalus’ ridges, and lay by her side.</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">Thereafter to Lokrus the childless he brought</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">That maid, lest the fingers of eld should blot</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">Out his name, and his line be continued not</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">If heirless the king of the land should have died.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>But the king’s bride bare till her time’s fulfilling</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">The seed of the Mightiest ’neath her zone;</span>
						<br/>
						<span>And the hero rejoiced with a joy heart-thrilling</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">O’er the fair babe not of his own seed sown;</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">And he gave him his mother’s father’s name,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">And a man pre-eminent he became</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">In goodlihead and in deeds of fame,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">And his sire gave a city to rule for his own.</span>
					</p>
				</section>
				<section id="olympian-9-8">
					<header>
						<p>Antistrophe 3</p>
					</header>
					<p>
						<span>And there unto him were gathered strangers:</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">From Argos the horse-land, from Thebes they hied,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>And from Pisa, and Arcady’s mountain-rangers;</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">But of all that came in his land to abide</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">Was Aegina’s and Aktor’s son honoured most,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">Menoitius, whose son with the Atreids’ host</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">Unto Teuthras’ plain by the Troyland coast</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">Sailed. There alone by Achilles’ side</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Steadfast he stood, when Telephus turning</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">The valiant Danaans backward in flight,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Of their sea-pacing galleys essayed the burning;</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">So that all men knew who could deem aright</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">That a brave soul dwelt in Patroclus’ breast.</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">And the son of Thetis with earnest request</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">Exhorted him, yea, with insistent behest:</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">“Never hereafter in murderous fight</span>
					</p>
				</section>
				<section id="olympian-9-9">
					<header>
						<p>Epode 3</p>
					</header>
					<p>
						<span>“Do thou range thyself mid the battle-strain</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">From my man-quelling spear afar!”</span>
						<br/>
						<span>O that to fit praise I may attain</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">Of those that your champions are,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>As, bearing my burden of glory’s guerdon,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">I speed in the Song-queen’s car!</span>
						<br/>
						<span>And may Daring attend me close at my side</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">And Power all-compassing!</span>
						<br/>
						<span>For hither at friendship’s call have I hied,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">And at Chivalry’s summons I sing</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Of Lampromachus telling in prowess excelling</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">In the Isthmian athlete-ring.</span>
					</p>
				</section>
				<section id="olympian-9-10">
					<header>
						<p>Strophe 4</p>
					</header>
					<p>
						<span>Yea, in the same day stood victorious</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">He and his brother in mimic fray;</span>
						<br/>
						<span>And at Corinth’s gates was the name twice glorious</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">Of Epharmostus in athlete-play.</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">Other wreaths did he win him in Nemea’s vale,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">And at Argos again did his prowess prevail,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">When in strife with men did he nowise fail,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">As he failed not at Athens in boyhood’s day.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>And what contest was that, when, waxing bolder,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">From the boys’ ranks stealing at Marathon,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>He abode the grapple of strong men older</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">Than he, for the silver cups to be won;</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">And by ring-craft that shifteth its balance fast</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">Never falling, he threw them. As tempest-blast</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">Rang the cheering, as down the arena he passed</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">In his goodlihead, goodliest deeds who had done.</span>
					</p>
				</section>
				<section id="olympian-9-11">
					<header>
						<p>Antistrophe 4</p>
					</header>
					<p>
						<span>At the festal assembly of Zeus Lycaean</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">Wondrous he showed in Parrhasia’s sight,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>And again at Pellene’s games Heraean</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">He won him a warm defence from the spite</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">Of the blasts of winter, a mantle-vest.</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">And the sepulchre where Iolaus doth rest,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">And Eleusis beside the sea attest</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">The splendour of all his deeds of might.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>The gifts that by Nature’s self be given</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">Are ever the best; yet many there be</span>
						<br/>
						<span>That by learning of teachers have painfully striven</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">To attain unto honour’s felicity.</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">But the deed whose achievement no God hath blessed,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">That it never be published abroad is best.</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">Some paths there be that in glory’s quest</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">Lead farther than others her votary.</span>
					</p>
				</section>
				<section id="olympian-9-12">
					<header>
						<p>Epode 4</p>
					</header>
					<p>
						<span>One path of endeavour, ye well may deem,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">Leads not all men unto fame.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Ah, steep are poesy’s heights supreme;</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">Yet, Muse, when thou crownest his name</span>
						<br/>
						<span>With thy guerdon of singing, with shout high-ringing</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">Fearlessly then proclaim</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Of our champion, that Nature hath dowered him</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">By the favour of Fate the divine,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>With deftness of hand, with litheness of limb,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">With valour’s light in his eyne,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>And that now victorious hath he made glorious</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">Oïlean Aias’ shrine.</span>
					</p>
				</section>
			</section>
			<section id="olympian-10" epub:type="chapter">
				<header>
					<h3>
						<span epub:type="label">Olympian</span>
						<span epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">X</span>
					</h3>
					<p epub:type="bridgehead">For Agesidamus of Locri Epizephyrii, (on the <abbr epub:type="se:compass">S. E.</abbr> coast of Italy), on his victory in the Boys’ wrestling-match, 476 <abbr epub:type="se:era">BC</abbr>. This Ode was written to be sung at his home in Locri, and is later in date than the next, which was chanted at Olympia immediately after the victory.<a href="endnotes.xhtml#note-14" id="noteref-14" epub:type="noteref">14</a></p>
				</header>
				<section id="olympian-10-1">
					<header>
						<p>Strophe 1</p>
					</header>
					<p>
						<span>Read ye to me his name⁠—upon mine inmost heart ’tis writ⁠—</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">Archestratus’ son, he who won the Olympian victory:</span>
						<br/>
						<span>I owe him a sweet triumph-song⁠—I had forgotten it!</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">At last, O Muse, and thou, O Truth, the child of Zeus most high,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Do ye with your atoning hands make of the offence an end:</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Blot out the stain of broken troth, the sin against a friend!</span>
					</p>
				</section>
				<section id="olympian-10-2">
					<header>
						<p>Antistrophe 1</p>
					</header>
					<p>
						<span>From far hath come accusing Time with wings that slowly trail</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">Yet surely, crying shame on me for my deep debt unpaid.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Yet if with usury I pay it now, this may avail</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">To lift the burden, hush the lips that faithlessness upbraid.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>My song shall swell as rolling surge that sweeps the shingle down,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Shall pay the wronged one friendship’s debt, shall chant his land’s renown.</span>
					</p>
				</section>
				<section id="olympian-10-3">
					<header>
						<p>Epode 1</p>
					</header>
					<p>
						<span>Unswerving Honour’s home is there beside the western seas.</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">The Lokrians’ burg. They reverence the Queen of Epic Song</span>
						<br/>
						<span>And Ares bronze-arrayed. Yea, even mighty Heracles</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">Must needs before your Kyknus flee, a foeman over-strong.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>To Has let the Olympian victor render thanks this day,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Who trained Agesidamus’ hands for that grim gauntlet-play;</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">As oft Patroclus thanked Achilles, saith the old-time story.</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">The man for high achievement born shall win yet higher glory</span>
						<br/>
						<span>If one with God’s help whet his spirit’s edge to each essay.</span>
					</p>
				</section>
				<section id="olympian-10-4">
					<header>
						<p>Strophe 2</p>
					</header>
					<p>
						<span>The joy of triumph few have won without hard toil, I ween,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">The joy that is a light of life that makes the toil seem naught.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Statutes of Zeus have kindled me to sing the peerless queen</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">Of contests, which beside the tomb of Pelops ancient-wrought</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Did Heracles with altars six found in that haunted dell</span>
						<br/>
						<span>When Kteatus, Poseidon’s flawless son, before him fell;</span>
					</p>
				</section>
				<section id="olympian-10-5">
					<header>
						<p>Antistrophe 2</p>
					</header>
					<p>
						<span>And Eurytus he slew withal, to wrest his hire thereby</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">For service wrought, which Augeas the tyrant grudged to pay.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Couched in a copse ’neath Kleonae in ambush did he lie,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">And as they came, leapt forth and fought and slew them in the way;</span>
						<br/>
						<span>For Molos’ haughty sons had slaughtered his Tirynthian men</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Erewhile by treachery, as they lay encamped in Elis’ glen.</span>
					</p>
				</section>
				<section id="olympian-10-6">
					<header>
						<p>Epode 2</p>
					</header>
					<p>
						<span>And verily it was not long ere that Epeian lord</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">Guest-faithless saw his wealth-abounding land and his own town</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Beneath the fire’s remorseless breath and iron stroke of sword</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">Into the dark unfathomed gulf of ruin sinking down.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Ay, when a man hath rushed into contention, hard it is</span>
						<br/>
						<span>To win forth thence, and loose the grip of mightier foes, I wis.</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">Yea, Augeas’ self, brought by his redeless counsel to confusion,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">Was captive taken at the last, nor ’scaped sin’s retribution,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Hurled down to death, as one who falls from some sheer precipice.</span>
					</p>
				</section>
				<section id="olympian-10-7">
					<header>
						<p>Strophe 3</p>
					</header>
					<p>
						<span>Then Zeus’s mighty son assembled all his battle-band</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">And all the spoil of war: a sacred precinct did he trace</span>
						<br/>
						<span>In Pisa for his sire supreme, and fenced on every hand</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">The Altis, and the bounds thereof in a clear open space</span>
						<br/>
						<span>He marked out, and for rest and feasting all the plain around</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Ordained; and so was Alpheus’ stream by him with honour crowned,</span>
					</p>
				</section>
				<section id="olympian-10-8">
					<header>
						<p>Antistrophe 3</p>
					</header>
					<p>
						<span>With the twelve Royal Gods; and on the height therein bestowed</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">The name of Kronos’ Hill; for when Oenomaus was king</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Nameless it was, a crest by clouds of winter oversnowed.</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">And while men bowed them in that rite primeval worshipping,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>The Fates were there unseen, yet close they stood beside him then,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>And Time was there, who of the truth alone convinceth men.</span>
					</p>
				</section>
				<section id="olympian-10-9">
					<header>
						<p>Epode 3</p>
					</header>
					<p>
						<span>For, journeying onward, clearly Time hath told truth manifest</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">How Heracles took battle’s gifts, how he divided all,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>And to those Gods apportioned out of all the spoils the best,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">And with due sacrifice ordained that fifth-year festival,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>That first Olympiad whose fame has pealed the ages down.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>And who were they, the first that won that new-appointed crown</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">With battling hands, with racing feet, with chariot swiftly flying,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">Who in their hearts the vision saw of glory’s wreath undying,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>And by their deeds of prowess won unperishing renown?</span>
					</p>
				</section>
				<section id="olympian-10-10">
					<header>
						<p>Strophe 4</p>
					</header>
					<p>
						<span>Adown the straight course of the racing-track Likyminius’ son</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">Oionus sped: fast did his feet before all rivals bound:</span>
						<br/>
						<span>From Midea’s gates in Argolis he led his war-host on.</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">And by his wrestling Echemus made Tegea renowned.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>The gauntlet-fighters’ guerdon from the lists Doryklus bore</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Who dwelt in Tiryns. In the chariot-race of horses four</span>
					</p>
				</section>
				<section id="olympian-10-11">
					<header>
						<p>Antistrophe 4</p>
					</header>
					<p>
						<span>Samos of Mantinea, Halirhothius’ son, sped fast</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">Beyond the rest; and Phrastus’ lance with aim unerring flew;</span>
						<br/>
						<span>And Nikeus past all rival marks the huge stone discus cast,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">The weight that whirling round with circling sweep of hand he threw.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Then thundered forth the mighty cheer from all his war-mates there.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>And lo, the fair-faced moon’s sweet light lit up the evening air.</span>
					</p>
				</section>
				<section id="olympian-10-12">
					<header>
						<p>Epode 4</p>
					</header>
					<p>
						<span>Then rang the close with songs, as music rings through banquet-hall.</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">So voices still the victor sing, and feet the revel tread.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Now, as the grey beginnings of those contests we recall,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">We too, in song named after Victory stately-charioted,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Will chant the thunder’s praise, the fiery-handed flames that fly</span>
						<br/>
						<span>In crimson-flickering bolts of Him who wakes the thunder’s cry,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">And sendeth down upon the earth his lurid-gleaming levin</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">Which sealeth every victory with Zeus’s sign from heaven.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>And consonant with flutes shall ring my song’s rich melody,</span>
					</p>
				</section>
				<section id="olympian-10-13">
					<header>
						<p>Strophe 5</p>
					</header>
					<p>
						<span>Which here by Dirke’s stream renowned hath come to light at last.</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">As welcome to that father comes a son in wedlock born</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Whose feet unto the further slope of young life’s hill have passed,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">And lights a love-flame in the heart that was of joy forlorn⁠—</span>
						<br/>
						<span>For to a dying man is death a thing to hate yet more</span>
						<br/>
						<span>If alien heirs like sheep shall herd his wealth of garnered store;⁠—</span>
					</p>
				</section>
				<section id="olympian-10-14">
					<header>
						<p>Antistrophe 5</p>
					</header>
					<p>
						<span>Even so, Agesidamus, when from emprise nobly wrought</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">A man descendeth all unsung to mansions of the dead,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Scant pleasure all his toil hath won, his breath was spent for nought.</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">But upon thee the sweet-voiced lyre and dulcet flute have shed</span>
						<br/>
						<span>The grace of all their winsomeness: like some wide-spreading tree</span>
						<br/>
						<span>By those Zeus-born Pierian Maids thy fame shall fostered be.</span>
					</p>
				</section>
				<section id="olympian-10-15">
					<header>
						<p>Epode 5</p>
					</header>
					<p>
						<span>And I, their earnest fellow-worker, to mine heart enfold</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">This glorious race of Lokrians. Song’s honey-dew I shower</span>
						<br/>
						<span>On that burg of heroic men. Thy praises have I told,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">Archestratus’ all-comely son, whose victory in that hour</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Achieved by prowess of thine hand by mine own eyes was seen.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Beside the altar crowned in that Olympian demesne</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">I saw him! Goodly was his presence, strength and beauty blended</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">With that spring-bloom which glowed on Ganymede when he ascended</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Heaven-high above death’s ruthless clutch, by favour of Love’s Queen.</span>
					</p>
				</section>
			</section>
			<section id="olympian-11" epub:type="chapter">
				<header>
					<h3>
						<span epub:type="label">Olympian</span>
						<span epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">XI</span>
					</h3>
					<p epub:type="bridgehead">For Agesidamus of Lokri Epizephyrii, for the same victory as the preceding Ode. Chanted at Olympia on the day of victory.</p>
				</header>
				<section id="olympian-11-1">
					<header>
						<p>Strophe</p>
					</header>
					<p>
						<span>Sometimes the wind-battalions shouting loud</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">Do men most service, now again</span>
						<br/>
						<span>The rains of heaven, the children of the cloud,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i4">Bring blessing in their train.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>But when by toil one winneth victory,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">The singer’s honey-throated lays</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Upringing, plant for fame that yet shall be</span>
						<br/>
						<span>A sure foundation, are a prophecy</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i4">Of exploits worthy praise.</span>
					</p>
				</section>
				<section id="olympian-11-2">
					<header>
						<p>Antistrophe</p>
					</header>
					<p>
						<span>Far beyond envy are the praises stored</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">For victors at Olympia crowned.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Songs are my sheep; I, as some shepherd-lord,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i4">Find them fair pasture-ground.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>By God’s gift inspiration bloometh aye</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">In the bard’s heart unfadingly.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Son of Archestratus, know thou this day,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Agesidamus, that my victory-lay</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i4">Shall sweetly sound for thee,</span>
					</p>
				</section>
				<section id="olympian-11-3">
					<header>
						<p>Epode</p>
					</header>
					<p>
						<span>Shall for the triumph of thy ring-craft grace</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">With splendour thy bright olive-wreath,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>And honour therewithal the Lokrian race</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i4">Fanned by the West-wind’s breath.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>O Song-queens, hither speed your festal feet!</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">I pledge me in sincerity</span>
						<br/>
						<span>No guest-repelling folk ye there shall meet,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i4">Nor in fair chivalry</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Unschooled: nay, over wisdom’s heights they range,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">They with the spear were valiant ever.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>That these be like their sires is nowise strange:</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Red fox and thunder-throated lion change</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i4">Their inborn nature never.</span>
					</p>
				</section>
			</section>
			<section id="olympian-12" epub:type="chapter">
				<header>
					<h3>
						<span epub:type="label">Olympian</span>
						<span epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">XII</span>
					</h3>
					<p epub:type="bridgehead">For Ergoteles of Himera in Sicily (whither he had come to live when forced by political faction to leave his native city of Knossus in Crete), on his victory in the long foot-race (three miles), 472 <abbr epub:type="se:era">BC</abbr>.</p>
				</header>
				<section id="olympian-12-1">
					<header>
						<p>Strophe</p>
					</header>
					<p>
						<span>Hear, O thou Daughter of Zeus the Deliverer, Fortune the Saver</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">From peril! Keep watch and ward, I implore,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Over Himera, burg of the far-stretching might; for ’tis by thy favour</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">That ships be steered to their haven-shore</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Over the sea; and torrent-like wars, and council-decisions</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">Be guided on land. Tossed high, whelmed low</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Be the hopes of men, as over a sea of delusive visions</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">Cleaving the treacherous waves they go.</span>
					</p>
				</section>
				<section id="olympian-12-2">
					<header>
						<p>Antistrophe</p>
					</header>
					<p>
						<span>But through all the years never any of men on the earth abiding</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">Hath found sure tokens from God to reveal</span>
						<br/>
						<span>How he shall fare in the days to come, but in darkness hiding</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">Are the future’s warnings of woe or weal.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Many chances to men have befallen, yea, past all expectation:</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">Some plunge from joy into sorrow’s abyss;</span>
						<br/>
						<span>And some, who have battled with troublous surges, by sudden mutation</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">Their anguish have changed for the height of bliss.</span>
					</p>
				</section>
				<section id="olympian-12-3">
					<header>
						<p>Epode</p>
					</header>
					<p>
						<span>O son of Philanor, verily even thy swift feet’s glory</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">Had as dead leaves faded, unmarked, uncrowned,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>There by the hearth of thy fathers: thy name had been heard not in story;</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">As a home-fighting cock hadst thou been unrenowned,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Had contention in Knossus of burgher with burgher in conflict gory</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">In the homeland not left thee no foot of ground.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>But now at Olympia, Ergoteles, winning a victory-garland</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">And at Isthmus, at Pytho, twain⁠—by these</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Thou exaltest to honour the steaming Baths of the Nymphs in a far land,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">On thine own lands dwelling in stormless peace.</span>
					</p>
				</section>
			</section>
			<section id="olympian-13" epub:type="chapter">
				<header>
					<h3>
						<span epub:type="label">Olympian</span>
						<span epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">XIII</span>
					</h3>
					<p epub:type="bridgehead">For Xenophon of Corinth (whose father had won the foot-race forty years before), on his double victory in the Foot-race and the Pentathlon⁠—an unprecedented feat. The Pentathlon consisted of five events, foot-race, long jump, discus, javelin, wrestling. Victory in three events assured a competitor of the crown. 464 <abbr epub:type="se:era">BC</abbr>.</p>
				</header>
				<section id="olympian-13-1">
					<header>
						<p>Strophe 1</p>
					</header>
					<p>
						<span>Now, while I laud a house that thrice can vaunt</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">Olympian victory, gracious to the guest,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>To fellow-burghers courteous, I will chant</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">With theirs the praise of Corinth heaven-blest.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Here Isthmian Poseidon fixed his portals,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">This city glorious⁠—noble sons are hers!</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Here hath Fair Governance her home mid mortals,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">Here dwell her sisters, city-stablishers,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Justice, and Peace her fellow-fosterling:</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">God’s stewards of true wealth to men they be,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Themis’s golden daughters, they who bring</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">Wise counsels from the Queen of Equity;</span>
					</p>
				</section>
				<section id="olympian-13-2">
					<header>
						<p>Antistrophe 1</p>
					</header>
					<p>
						<span>And resolute are they afar to scare</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">Insolence, glutted greed’s tongue-shameless dam.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Fair witness of them it is mine to bear;</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">By forthright boldness spurred to speak I am.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>None can suppress our nature’s inborn powers,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">Hide them can none. On you, Aletes’ seed,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Oftentimes have the Seasons crowned with flowers</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">Bestowed the splendour of the victor’s meed</span>
						<br/>
						<span>As upon men with hero-prowess fired,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">Men in the sacred Games with victory wreathed;</span>
						<br/>
						<span>And oft into men’s souls have they inspired</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">Devices wise by them of old bequeathed.</span>
					</p>
				</section>
				<section id="olympian-13-3">
					<header>
						<p>Epode 1</p>
					</header>
					<p>
						<span>To him of whom first each invention came</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">Is all the honour due. Who caused to appear</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Dionysus’ graces, with the dithyramb</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">That wins the ox? Who unto horses’ gear</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Added the rein? On temples god-enshrining</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">Who set the twofold image of the king</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Of birds? Flower-fragrant there the Muse is shining,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">And Ares spear-girt by a warrior-ring.</span>
					</p>
				</section>
				<section id="olympian-13-4">
					<header>
						<p>Strophe 2</p>
					</header>
					<p>
						<span>Olympian Lord most high, who far and wide</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">Reignest, grudge not fulfilment of my prayer</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Through all time! May this city’s folk abide</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">In safety! May the breeze of fortune fair</span>
						<br/>
						<span>That breathes on Xenophon, blow constant ever!</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">The due procession singing home his crown</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Accept thou, as from Pisa’s plain and river</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">He leads it onward to his native town.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>For victor in the Contests Five is he</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">And in the foot-race: so hath he attained</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Such glory multiplied of victory</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">As mortal never yet before hath gained.</span>
					</p>
				</section>
				<section id="olympian-13-5">
					<header>
						<p>Antistrophe 2</p>
					</header>
					<p>
						<span>And shadowed was his head by garlands twain</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">When Isthmus saw him win the parsley-meed:</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Kindness no less from Nemea did he gain</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">The record of his father’s lightning speed</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Is treasured still where Alpheus softly paces.</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">Yea, and at Pytho by his feet were won</span>
						<br/>
						<span>The crowns of honour in the twofold races,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">Single and double, under one day’s sun.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>In that same month at rocky Athens-town</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">A day fulfilled of glorious victory</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Set on his hair crown after victor’s crown</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">Whose flying feet had won him races three.</span>
					</p>
				</section>
				<section id="olympian-13-6">
					<header>
						<p>Epode 2</p>
					</header>
					<p>
						<span>Seven times Hellotia crowned him. ’Twere too long</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">To tell how with their father Ptoiadore</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Did Terpsias and Eritimus strong<a href="endnotes.xhtml#note-15" id="noteref-15" epub:type="noteref">15</a></span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">Triumph in games beside the Sea-god’s shore;</span>
						<br/>
						<span>How oft at Delphi ye, and in the Lion’s</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">Dark glen stood first⁠—though my song-treasury</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Outrival all bards, their tale bids defiance</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">To reckoning; countless as the sands they be.</span>
					</p>
				</section>
				<section id="olympian-13-7">
					<header>
						<p>Strophe 3</p>
					</header>
					<p>
						<span>But to each thing pertaineth measure meet,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">And best of all it is to know aright</span>
						<br/>
						<span>The fit time. I, who sail in your great fleet,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">Yet choose mine own course, sing the battle-might</span>
						<br/>
						<span>And wisdom of old days, and in the telling</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">Lie not⁠—of heroism’s highways trod</span>
						<br/>
						<span>By Corinth, and of Sisyphus excelling</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">In cunning counsels even as some God,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>And of Medea, her who dared defy</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">Her father, chose at her own heart’s behest</span>
						<br/>
						<span>A bridegroom, and the saviour was thereby</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">Of Argo and the Heroes of the Quest.</span>
					</p>
				</section>
				<section id="olympian-13-8">
					<header>
						<p>Antistrophe 3</p>
					</header>
					<p>
						<span>Again of old when dashed the war’s red seas</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">Against Troy’s walls, ’twas ever Corinth’s sons</span>
						<br/>
						<span>That swayed to either side war’s balance, these</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">Helping Atreides and his mighty ones</span>
						<br/>
						<span>To win back Helen, those to make resistance</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">Unto the uttermost, when Danaans quailed</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Before strong Glaukus, who from the far distance</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">Of Lycia’s highlands flashed on them bronze-mailed,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>And vaunted of his father’s empery</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">Over the city of Peirene there,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>And of his heritage of deep-loamed lea,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">And of his stately palace royal-fair,</span>
					</p>
				</section>
				<section id="olympian-13-9">
					<header>
						<p>Epode 3</p>
					</header>
					<p>
						<span>That sire who sorely suffered by the spring</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">Where he would fain bind snake-haired Gorgon’s son</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Pegasus. Dreaming, he saw Pallas bring</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">The bridle that with golden frontlet shone:⁠—</span>
						<br/>
						<span>And lo, ’twas no dream! “Aiolid prince, awake thee!”</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">She cried⁠—“Receive this spell to charm yon steed.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>To thine horse-taming Sire with this betake thee;</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">There let a white bull on his altar bleed.”</span>
					</p>
				</section>
				<section id="olympian-13-10">
					<header>
						<p>Strophe 4</p>
					</header>
					<p>
						<span>Thus as he slumbered in the gloom of night,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">The Maid of the Dark Aegis seemed to say.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Upleaping, on his feet he stood upright,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">And seized the marvel that beside him lay.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Then joyously to Corinth’s seer he wended,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">And to the son of Koiranus he showed</span>
						<br/>
						<span>How that strange venture of the night had ended,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">How, trusting all the prophet did forebode,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>He laid him down to sleep all through the night</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">Upon the altar in Athene’s fane;</span>
						<br/>
						<span>How she, the Child of Him whose lance of light</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">Is levin, with her own hands did she deign</span>
					</p>
				</section>
				<section id="olympian-13-11">
					<header>
						<p>Antistrophe 4</p>
					</header>
					<p>
						<span>To bring to him the spirit-taming gold.</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">The seer bade haste that vision to obey;</span>
						<br/>
						<span>To the Wide-ruler who doth earth enfold</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">The bull, the mighty-footed beast, to slay;</span>
						<br/>
						<span>And then to rear to Pallas chariot-reining</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">An altar. Ah, by power of Gods is brought</span>
						<br/>
						<span>To pass a thing transcending prayers’ attaining,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">Transcending all hope⁠—effortlessly wrought!</span>
						<br/>
						<span>So was it now; for strong Bellerophon</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">With haste impetuous hied him forth to quell</span>
						<br/>
						<span>That winged steed⁠—lo, the victory was won</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">When touched his jaws the fury-stilling spell!</span>
					</p>
				</section>
				<section id="olympian-13-12">
					<header>
						<p>Epode 4</p>
					</header>
					<p>
						<span>He sprang on Pegasus’ back; in brazen mail</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">Arrayed to play the play of swords he sped;</span>
						<br/>
						<span>And riding on that steed did he assail</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">From the chill cloudland’s folds untenanted</span>
						<br/>
						<span>The Amazon host, the maids that bear the quiver;</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">Fire-breath’d Chimaera slew and Solymi.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>That steed in Zeus’s stalls abideth ever:⁠—</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">His rider’s doom I pass in silence by.</span>
					</p>
				</section>
				<section id="olympian-13-13">
					<header>
						<p>Strophe 5</p>
					</header>
					<p>
						<span>But, as I hurl the whizzing casting-spear,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">My shaft beside the mark I may not speed.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>To Song-queens splendour-throned with joy draws near</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">Their champion, and to Oligaithus’ seed.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>How oft at Nemea these have shone victorious</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">And at the Isthmus, all will I comprise</span>
						<br/>
						<span>In few words: of the record passing-glorious</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">My tale a truthful witness ratifies⁠—</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Ay, under oath⁠—that noble herald’s tongue</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">Which published threescore victories in the names</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Of this House⁠—welcome-sweet his accents rung!⁠—</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">When Nemea and the Isthmus held their games.</span>
					</p>
				</section>
				<section id="olympian-13-14">
					<header>
						<p>Antistrophe 5</p>
					</header>
					<p>
						<span>Touching their victories at Olympia won,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">Meseems, the tale already hath been told;</span>
						<br/>
						<span>And of the great deeds that shall yet be done,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">Their tale hereafter shall my song unfold</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Clearly. I hope now: with God lies the issue;</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">But, if this House’s fortune speed, I trow,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Zeus and the War-god’s hands shall weave the tissue</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">Of that bright future. ’Neath Parnassus’ brow</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Six triumphs won they: all at Argos gained</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">And Thebes, and where by that Lykaian height</span>
						<br/>
						<span>The altar royal unto Zeus ordained</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">Shall witness in Arcadia’s people’s sight,</span>
					</p>
				</section>
				<section id="olympian-13-15">
					<header>
						<p>Epode 5</p>
					</header>
					<p>
						<span>And in Pellene, Megara, Sikyon,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">And in the Aiakids’ close fair-walled around,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>And at Eleusis, shining Marathon,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">And towns by Etna’s huge mass overfrowned,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Euboea⁠—nay, all Hellas through, thy questing</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">Shall prove them countless. Zeus, who answerest prayer,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Light let their feet glide on! Be honour resting</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">On these, all bliss be theirs and fortune fair!</span>
					</p>
				</section>
			</section>
			<section id="olympian-14" epub:type="chapter">
				<header>
					<h3>
						<span epub:type="label">Olympian</span>
						<span epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">XIV</span>
					</h3>
					<p epub:type="bridgehead">For Asopichus of Orchomenus, in Boeotia, on his victory in the Boys’ short foot-race, <abbr epub:type="se:era">BC</abbr> 488 (?).</p>
				</header>
				<section id="olympian-14-1">
					<header>
						<p>Strophe 1</p>
					</header>
					<p>
						<span>O ye who your lot by Kephisus have found,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">Ye who dwell in the land where the swift horse races,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">O bright Orchomenus’ queens, ye Graces</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Who compass the ancient Minyans round</span>
						<br/>
						<span>With your guardian arms, O song-renowned,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">Now hearken my prayer! By your bounty all pleasure,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">All sweet things on menfolk descend in full measure,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>All wisdom, all beauty, all fame with its splendour.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>’Tis with help that the Graces, the worshipful, render</span>
						<br/>
						<span>That the Gods’ own dancings and feastings be holden;</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Yea, these be dispensers of all things in Heaven.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>By the side of the Lord of the bow all-golden,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Pythian Apollo, be thrones to them given;</span>
						<br/>
						<span>The Olympian Sire are they ever adoring,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>And his majesty’s fountain for aye outpouring.</span>
					</p>
				</section>
				<section id="olympian-14-2">
					<header>
						<p>Strophe 2</p>
					</header>
					<p>
						<span>O Daughters of Zeus of the Gods most high,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">Euphrosyne lover of song, and Aglaia,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">And thou who dost joy in the chant, Thalia,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Hearken ye now to our suppliant cry!</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Look down as our triumphing troop sweeps by,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">As onward with lightsome foot it is pacing</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">The victor’s fortune of happiness gracing.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>I come hither the praise of Asopichus singing,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>In Lydian measure my chant outringing,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>For that now is the Minyan House victorious</span>
						<br/>
						<span>By your grace at Olympia. Fly, Echo, telling</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Unto old Kleodamus the tidings glorious</span>
						<br/>
						<span>That shall brighten Persephone’s dark-walled dwelling,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>How his son in the Vale far-famous in story</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Hath enwreathed his tresses with garlands of glory.</span>
					</p>
				</section>
			</section>
		</section>
	</body>
</html>
