<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-GB">
	<head>
		<title>The Nemean Odes</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:non-fiction">
		<section id="the-nemean-odes" epub:type="volume">
			<h2 epub:type="title">The Nemean Odes</h2>
			<article id="nemean-1" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<header>
					<h3 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">I</h3>
					<p epub:type="bridgehead">For Chromius of Etna, who claimed descent from Heracles, on his victory in the chariot-race, <abbr epub:type="se:era">BC</abbr> 476 (?).</p>
				</header>
				<section id="nemean-1-1">
					<header>
						<p>Strophe 1</p>
					</header>
					<p>
						<span>O breathing-place of Alpheus panting in chase of the Nymph Arethusa, O child</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Of Syracuse world-renowned, Ortygia, couch of the Huntress-queen of the wild,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">O sister of Delos, the chant sweet-ringing is speeding from thee to proclaim with singing</span>
						<br/>
						<span>The mighty glory of tempest-footed horses, by Zeus’ grace, Etna’s lord;</span>
						<br/>
						<span>For the chariot of Chromius and Nemea stir me to yoke to her victory song’s reward.</span>
					</p>
				</section>
				<section id="nemean-1-2">
					<header>
						<p>Antistrophe 1</p>
					</header>
					<p>
						<span>Lo, how the Song’s foundations are laid in homage of Gods, and in praise of the might</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Of the victor’s godlike prowess! By fortune fair is he lifted to glory’s height.</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">Even the Song-queens joy in recording contests strenuous, garland-awarding.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Ho, scatter achievement’s splendour-seed o’er the isle Lord Zeus to Persephone gave</span>
						<br/>
						<span>To be Queen of the land fruit-wealthy, and bowed the locks that o’er brows Olympian wave</span>
					</p>
				</section>
				<section id="nemean-1-3">
					<header>
						<p>Epode 1</p>
					</header>
					<p>
						<span>For his pledge to exalt her crowns of wealthy cities, this Sicily harvest-teeming;</span>
						<br/>
						<span>And a people Kronion bestowed on her, wooers of war in bronze-hammered harness gleaming,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>A folk of the spear and the steed, to be wedded full oft to Olympia’s olive-leaf golden:⁠—</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Lo, I have lighted on theme after theme, never falsely, but aye by the truth have I holden.</span>
					</p>
				</section>
				<section id="nemean-1-4">
					<header>
						<p>Strophe 2</p>
					</header>
					<p>
						<span>Sweet are the strains that I sing as I stand at the doors of a hero who loveth the guest;</span>
						<br/>
						<span>And there is arrayed a banquet meet for a bard in the halls whither oft have pressed</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">Strangers from far-off shores who departed:⁠—O yea, he hath won for him friends true-hearted</span>
						<br/>
						<span>By whom slander is quenched, as smouldering fire by water. Diverse be men in skill,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>But in straight paths ever ’tis meet to walk, and to fight life’s battle as Nature shall will.</span>
					</p>
				</section>
				<section id="nemean-1-5">
					<header>
						<p>Antistrophe 2</p>
					</header>
					<p>
						<span>Bodily strength in action worketh, but wisdom of soul in counsel, for one</span>
						<br/>
						<span>In whom is inborn the skill to foresee the future. Agesidamus’ son,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">To thee, life through, by the grace of Heaven, have strength and wisdom alike been given.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>I love not to hoard in mine halls vast wealth, but to taste life’s pleasures and share life’s wine,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>For my good name’s sake, with friends; for the hopes of toil-tried men I account as mine.</span>
					</p>
				</section>
				<section id="nemean-1-6">
					<header>
						<p>Epode 2</p>
					</header>
					<p>
						<span>For me, my spirit is willing thrall to the fascination of Heracles’ glory;</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Mid the heights of achievement whereunto he soared I love to recall that old-time story,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>How, soon as the son of Zeus came forth to the light of day with his twin-born brother,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>When he leapt to the splendour of sunlight-glow from the travail-tormented womb of his mother,</span>
					</p>
				</section>
				<section id="nemean-1-7">
					<header>
						<p>Strophe 3</p>
					</header>
					<p>
						<span>Then Hera the gold-enthroned marked well where the babe mid his saffron swaddlings lay;</span>
						<br/>
						<span>And the Queen of the Gods, with anger stung, two serpents against him sent straightway.</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">Into the chamber, when opened its portal, they slid, those servants of hate immortal,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Ravening-eager to coil their swiftly-darting jaws round the children twain.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>But Heracles straightway uplifted his head, and was first to essay the battle-strain,</span>
					</p>
				</section>
				<section id="nemean-1-8">
					<header>
						<p>Antistrophe 3</p>
					</header>
					<p>
						<span>And of either serpent he gripped the throat in the hands wherefrom escape there was none,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Till the breath of life from their monstrous frames was breathed as the feet of time stole on.</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">But the arrow of horror soul-overpowering smote the maids round the bed of Alkmena cowering.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Yea, even she from her couch of the night had leapt of her tunic disarrayed,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>And with weak woman-hands to beat the monsters’ tyrannous onslaught back she essayed.</span>
					</p>
				</section>
				<section id="nemean-1-9">
					<header>
						<p>Epode 3</p>
					</header>
					<p>
						<span>And swiftly a throng of the chiefs Kadmeian came hurrying thither in bronze-mail clashing,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>And thither the father Amphitryon hasted, his falchion bared from the sheath outflashing,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Smitten with keen-stabbing anguish: for each man’s grief on his own soul heavily presseth;</span>
						<br/>
						<span>But soon disburdened of grief is the heart that nought but another’s affliction distresseth.</span>
					</p>
				</section>
				<section id="nemean-1-10">
					<header>
						<p>Strophe 4</p>
					</header>
					<p>
						<span>And there with his soul in a turmoil of wonder and rapture past all bearing he stood</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Beholding the tokens of giant strength and the child’s unearthly-aweless mood:</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">For to falsehood the tale of the messengers’ telling by the Gods had been turned. Then one near-dwelling</span>
						<br/>
						<span>He summoned, Teiresias ever-unerring seer, the prophet of Zeus most high;</span>
						<br/>
						<span>And to him and to all his host the child’s life-fortune did that seer prophesy.</span>
					</p>
				</section>
				<section id="nemean-1-11">
					<header>
						<p>Antistrophe 4</p>
					</header>
					<p>
						<span>For he told how many justice-defying monsters on land and sea he should slay,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>And should give unto death a man most hateful who walked in malice’s crooked way;</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">Yea also and when the strife should be striven on Phlegra’s plain of the Dwellers in Heaven</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Against the earth-spawned Giants arrayed, then ’neath his arrows’ rushing rain</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Should the flame-bright hair of the monster-brood be fouled in death with dust of the plain.</span>
					</p>
				</section>
				<section id="nemean-1-12">
					<header>
						<p>Epode 4</p>
					</header>
					<p>
						<span>But himself, at rest from his mighty toils, should thereafter inherit through days unending</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Peace ever-during, for sufferings past a recompense all earth-joys transcending,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>In the mansions of bliss wherein, united to Hebe blooming in youth eternal,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>With Zeus Kronion he sits at the feast in the deep content of a home supernal.</span>
					</p>
				</section>
			</article>
			<article id="nemean-2" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<header>
					<h3 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">II</h3>
					<p epub:type="bridgehead">For Timodemus of Acharnae in Attica, who had been trained in Salamis, on his victory in the Pancration, <abbr epub:type="se:era">BC</abbr> 485 (?).</p>
				</header>
				<section id="nemean-2-1">
					<header>
						<p>Strophe 1</p>
					</header>
					<p>
						<span>As the sons of Homer, the singers of deftly-woven lays,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Ever begin their chants with a prelude in Zeus’s praise,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">So in the Grove whose glory is chanted in every nation</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">This hero-athlete hath laid his achievements’ first foundation</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Where in Nemean Zeus’s name are bestowed the victor’s bays.</span>
					</p>
				</section>
				<section id="nemean-2-2">
					<header>
						<p>Strophe 2</p>
					</header>
					<p>
						<span>And if She, who unswerving hath guided his feet, even Destiny,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>On the path by his forefathers trodden, hath given this man to be</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">A glory to mighty Athens, he surely is fated victorious,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">This son of Timonous, often to pluck the flower most glorious</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Of the Isthmian Games, and at Pytho to win the victory;</span>
					</p>
				</section>
				<section id="nemean-2-3">
					<header>
						<p>Strophe 3</p>
					</header>
					<p>
						<span>For ’tis meet that Orion’s rising should follow exceeding nigh</span>
						<br/>
						<span>To the Pleiad Maids of the Mountain. Few can with Salamis vie</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">As a nurse of warriors mighty: yea. Hector in Troy’s war-leaguer</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">Heard Aias’ challenge; and thee shall thy prowess contest-eager</span>
						<br/>
						<span>In the fivefold grapple, O Timodemus, glorify.</span>
					</p>
				</section>
				<section id="nemean-2-4">
					<header>
						<p>Strophe 4</p>
					</header>
					<p>
						<span>Acharnae, as tell old legends, for hero-sons is renowned;</span>
						<br/>
						<span>And in all that pertaineth to contests pre-eminent still hath been found</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">This Timodemus’ House: in Parnassus imperial-seated</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">Have they won four victory-wreaths, strong champions aye undefeated.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Yea, also in royal Pelops’ mountain-folds were they crowned</span>
					</p>
				</section>
				<section id="nemean-2-5">
					<header>
						<p>Strophe 5</p>
					</header>
					<p>
						<span>Eight times by the sons of Corinth; in Nemea withal did they gain</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Seven triumph-wreaths; and at home, where Olympian Zeus’s fane</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">Looks down on the contest, garlands whose number passeth the telling.</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">Let Timodemus, O citizens, hear your acclaim upswelling</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Hailing his home-return! Now upraise ye the sweet-ringing strain.</span>
					</p>
				</section>
			</article>
			<article id="nemean-3" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<header>
					<h3 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">III</h3>
					<p epub:type="bridgehead">For Aristokleides of Aegina, on his victory in the Pancration, <abbr epub:type="se:era">BC</abbr> 475 (?), some years before; written for an anniversary of the victory.</p>
				</header>
				<section id="nemean-3-1">
					<header>
						<p>Strophe 1</p>
					</header>
					<p>
						<span>O queenly Muse, our mother, hitherward come, I pray,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>When the holy Moon brings round the Nemean festal day,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">To Aegina the guest-thronged Dorian isle. Where the ripples are sliding</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">Of Asopian waves, young craftsmen of songs honey-savoured, abiding</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">Thy coming, are longing to hear thy voice’s great song-burden!</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">Sooth, diverse deeds ever thirst for many a diverse guerdon,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>But victory in these Games above all things loveth Song</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Meetest companion of crowns and of triumphs achieved by the strong.</span>
					</p>
				</section>
				<section id="nemean-3-2">
					<header>
						<p>Antistrophe 1</p>
					</header>
					<p>
						<span>O Muse, unto me full measure of inspiration accord,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>And do thou, his daughter, upraise to the cloud-thronged heaven’s Lord</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">A noble hymn: I will blend it⁠—its strains as in spousals allying</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">With the lyre and the voices of singers. Aegina’s glorifying</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">Shall be a delightsome task; for there did the Myrmidons olden</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">Dwell: on the place where in ancient days were their gatherings holden</span>
						<br/>
						<span>By thy favour no shameful reproach did Aristokleides bring</span>
						<br/>
						<span>By weakness in that great strife of the strong in the athlete-ring</span>
					</p>
				</section>
				<section id="nemean-3-3">
					<header>
						<p>Epode 1</p>
					</header>
					<p>
						<span>Of the fivefold grapple, but there in Nemea’s low-lying plain</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Won victory’s healing balm for the blows’ overtasking pain.</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">But if Aristophanes’ son, in whom is the beauty blended</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">Of glorious goodlihead and glorious deeds, hath ascended</span>
						<br/>
						<span>To the heights of heroic achievement, impossible is it that he</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Past Heracles’ Pillars should voyage on o’er a trackless sea,</span>
					</p>
				</section>
				<section id="nemean-3-4">
					<header>
						<p>Strophe 2</p>
					</header>
					<p>
						<span>Pillars the Hero-god set for a world-famed witness to men</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Of their voyaging’s limits. Monstrous beasts had he quelled ere then</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">In the seas, and had tracked to the end the fen-floods sluggishly flowing</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">Till he came to the uttermost bourne that constrained his homeward going,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">And he meted the bounds of earth:⁠—but to what far foreland art bearing</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">On an alien shore, my soul, thy bark over dim seas faring?</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Nay, I bid thee for Aiakus summon the Muse, and for Aiakus’ race;</span>
						<br/>
						<span>For the flower of justice adorneth the precept, “<em>The good shall thou praise.</em>”</span>
					</p>
				</section>
				<section id="nemean-3-5">
					<header>
						<p>Antistrophe 2</p>
					</header>
					<p>
						<span>To cherish hot longings for far-away themes is nowise best:</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Search rather at home. A fitting theme is the fruit of thy quest</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">For sweet song’s gracing. When deeds of the heroes of old thou art telling,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">Sing the joy of king Peleus in hewing a lance all lances excelling,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">How alone with no war-host he compassed Iolkos’ storming and spoiling,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">And made captive and bride the Sea-goddess Thetis by strenuous toiling.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Sing of the world-famed might of Telamon, how with aid</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Of Iolaus his war-fellow low was Laomedon laid,</span>
					</p>
				</section>
				<section id="nemean-3-6">
					<header>
						<p>Epode 2</p>
					</header>
					<p>
						<span>And the Amazon Maids of the brazen bows did he face in the fray</span>
						<br/>
						<span>With him; nor the edge of his spirit was ever dulled by dismay</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">The queller of men. It is inborn valour with peril that copeth;</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">He whose valour of others is learnt is a man that in darkness gropeth.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>His will is a wind ever-veering; his feet are unstable aye;</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Ineffectual his purpose is still, though achievements untold he essay.</span>
					</p>
				</section>
				<section id="nemean-3-7">
					<header>
						<p>Strophe 3</p>
					</header>
					<p>
						<span>But Achilles the golden-haired, while in Philyra’s home yet he stayed,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Child though he were, made mighty deeds but his sport: he swayed</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">The short-headed dart in his hands, and, swift as the wild wind’s pinions,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">Death to the lions he dealt whom he tracked through their forest-dominions.</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">Boars also he slew, and the pulsing bodies of boar and lion</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">Still would he hale to the cave of the Centaur, Zeus’s scion,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>At the first when but six years old, but thereafter through all those days,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>So that Artemis, yea, and Athene the dauntless beheld with amaze,</span>
					</p>
				</section>
				<section id="nemean-3-8">
					<header>
						<p>Antistrophe 3</p>
					</header>
					<p>
						<span>As he slew the deer, unholpen of hounds or the net’s hidden guile;</span>
						<br/>
						<span>For by fleetness of foot he outran them. This tale told long erewhile</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">I recall, how that Jason was reared in the cave of the rock-rib rafter</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">By deep-thoughted Cheiron, who nurtured Asklepius thereafter,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">And taught how by herbs and the pain-soothing hand is disease resisted,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">And who won for Peleus the Daughter of Nereus, the ivory-wristed,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>And fostered for her that goodliest man of men, their son,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>And trained up his soul unto greatness by chivalry alone,</span>
					</p>
				</section>
				<section id="nemean-3-9">
					<header>
						<p>Epode 3</p>
					</header>
					<p>
						<span>That, borne on the swift-rushing wings of the winds o’er the sea’s highway</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Unto Troy, he might bide the Lycian and Phrygian and Dardan array</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">As their battle-cry rang through the clashing of lances, and close undaunted</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">With the Aethiop spearmen, and set the resolve in his heart firm-planted</span>
						<br/>
						<span>That Helenus’ fiery-hearted kinsman from battle-strain</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Should return not, nor Memnon their chieftain behold his home again.</span>
					</p>
				</section>
				<section id="nemean-3-10">
					<header>
						<p>Strophe 4</p>
					</header>
					<p>
						<span>Thence flashed it, the splendour of Aiakus’ house, which abideth for aye,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>O Zeus! They are thy blood: thine is the contest whereon my lay</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">Like an arrow hath lit; in its strains young voices the glory are singing</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">Of the land: for victorious Aristokleides ’tis meetly outringing,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">Who hath added another wreath of renown unto this isle’s story,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">And hath brightened the Pythian Shrine of the Envoys with visions of glory.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>For the issue of all endeavours is seen in the hour of the test,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Whereby alone is it proved what champion is best of the best,</span>
					</p>
				</section>
				<section id="nemean-3-11">
					<header>
						<p>Antistrophe 4</p>
					</header>
					<p>
						<span>Be he a boy among boys, or a man among men, or again</span>
						<br/>
						<span>An elder mid elders, as places in life’s race-course appertain</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">Unto humankind⁠—yea, four be the excellences attending</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">Each life, and to each as it comes all heed should a man be lending.</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">Thou art lacking in none. Farewell, friend! Lo, unto thee am speeding</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">The Muses’ honey; and blended therewith is milk white-beading</span>
						<br/>
						<span>With fairy bubbles the foam of whose mingling mantles around</span>
						<br/>
						<span>A chalice of song ushered in by Aeolian flutes’ sweet sound,</span>
					</p>
				</section>
				<section id="nemean-3-12">
					<header>
						<p>Epode 4</p>
					</header>
					<p>
						<span>Late though it come. Most swift is the eagle of all winged things,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Who suddenly grips in his talons with far-flying swoop of his wings</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">His blood-stained quarry. But chattering daws o’er the low grounds hover.</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">On thee, whom the favour of Klio the splendour-throned doth cover</span>
						<br/>
						<span>With glory, because of thy spirit, the athlete-champion’s mind,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>From Nemea and Megara light, and from Epidaurus, hath shined.</span>
					</p>
				</section>
			</article>
			<article id="nemean-4" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<header>
					<h3 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">IV</h3>
					<p epub:type="bridgehead">For Timasarchus of Aegina, a member of the Theandrid House, on his victory in the Boys’ wrestling-match, <abbr epub:type="se:era">BC</abbr> 473 (?). The praises of his uncle Kallikles, and of his trainer, Melesias the Athenian, are also sung.</p>
				</header>
				<section id="nemean-4-1">
					<header>
						<p>Strophe 1</p>
					</header>
					<p>
						<span>When conflict’s bitter strain to its decision</span>
						<br/>
						<span>At last attaineth, then the best physician</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">Is mirth, to close the overtasking day.</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">And song, the Muses’ child inspired, can lay</span>
						<br/>
						<span>On the heart’s wounds her magic hands of healing.</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">Not steaming baths so softly charm away</span>
						<br/>
						<span>The ache of toil, as words of praise outpealing</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">In unison with the lyre. Man’s speech shall long</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">Outlast his deeds, what words soe’er the tongue</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">Hath drawn up, by the Graces’ kind control,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">From wells of inspiration in the soul.</span>
					</p>
				</section>
				<section id="nemean-4-2">
					<header>
						<p>Strophe 2</p>
					</header>
					<p>
						<span>Now be it mine to make such song-oblation,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>To Zeus Kronion tendering dedication</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">Thereof, and Nemea. This my prelude be</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">To Timasarchus’ wrestling. Be it of thee</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Welcomed, O Aiakids’ stronghold goodly-towered,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">Beacon of justice, aliens’ sanctuary!</span>
						<br/>
						<span>O were thy sire Timokritus yet dowered</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">With life’s heat by the sun all-quickening,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">Oft bending o’er the changeful cithern-string</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">Would he have waked his music for his son,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">And hymned the glorious triumph he hath won,</span>
					</p>
				</section>
				<section id="nemean-4-3">
					<header>
						<p>Strophe 3</p>
					</header>
					<p>
						<span>Who from Kleonae brought a perfume-streaming</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Festoon of wreaths, and one from marble-gleaming</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">Renownèd Athens; and again beside</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">Amphitryon’s sepulchre fame-glorified</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Old Kadmus’ sons in Thebe seven-gated</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">Rained on him flowers with welcome kindly-eyed</span>
						<br/>
						<span>In whose love is Aegina consecrated;</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">For thither as a friend to friends he hied,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">As doth a ship into a haven glide,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">Came to that burg which welcomes aye the guest,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">Came to the Hall of Heracles heaven-blest,</span>
					</p>
				</section>
				<section id="nemean-4-4">
					<header>
						<p>Strophe 4</p>
					</header>
					<p>
						<span>With whom went stalwart Telamon for the smiting</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Of Troy, and met the Meropes grim-fighting,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">And Alkyoneus the giant did they slay,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">A warrior terrible in battle-play;</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Yet slew him not till rocks like slingstones whirling</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">From his hands crushed in shattered disarray</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Twelve cars, and hero-riders deathward hurling</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">Twice twelve he strewed amid that wreck of cars.</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">Wholly unversed is he in lore of wars</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">To whose ears never that old saying came,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">“<em>Who doeth violence must endure the same.</em>”</span>
					</p>
				</section>
				<section id="nemean-4-5">
					<header>
						<p>Strophe 5</p>
					</header>
					<p>
						<span>But not for me is legend’s full unfolding,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Who see the law of song mine hand withholding:</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">Yea, and the hasting hours brook no delay.</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">A strong spell draws me on to sing the day</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Of the New Moon that on those Games was shining.</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">Though round thee breast-high plash the deep-sea spray,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Stand firm! Strive on ’gainst treacherous foes’ designing!</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">O’er foes triumphant shall we win the port</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">In clear day! One of less heroic sort,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">With envy evil-eyed, in darkness schemes;</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">But fruitless to the ground shall fall his dreams.</span>
					</p>
				</section>
				<section id="nemean-4-6">
					<header>
						<p>Strophe 6</p>
					</header>
					<p>
						<span>But one thing certainly mine heart divineth,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>That, whatso excellence Lord Fate designeth</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">For me, Time’s onward-stealing feet will bring</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">To its ordained perfection that same thing.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Weave on, O winsome Lyre, make speed in weaving</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">Thy web of song that shall accordant ring</span>
						<br/>
						<span>With Lydian harmony, song-vesture cleaving</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">Lovingly round Oenone and Cyprus, where,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">Far from the ancient home constrained to fare,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">An island-king Telamonian Teucer is,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">While Aias rules ancestral Salamis;</span>
					</p>
				</section>
				<section id="nemean-4-7">
					<header>
						<p>Strophe 7</p>
					</header>
					<p>
						<span>And in the Euxine Sea a sunbright island</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Achilles rules; and in the Phthian highland</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">Still Thetis queens it; in the pastures green</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">Of broad Epirus, where long forelands lean</span>
						<br/>
						<span>From oakwoods of Dodona downward trending</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">To the Ionian sea-gulf’s rippling sheen,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Neoptolemus rules a people cattle-tending.</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">But the land under Pelion capt with cloud,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">Iolkos, was of old to thraldom bowed</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">When Peleus turned thereon a warring hand,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">And to Haimonians gave the traitor’s land;</span>
					</p>
				</section>
				<section id="nemean-4-8">
					<header>
						<p>Strophe 8</p>
					</header>
					<p>
						<span>Because Akastus, son of Pelias, hearkened</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Unto Hippolyte’s counsels treachery-darkened,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">From Peleus stole the sword that Daedalus wrought,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">And by the ambush of the man-brutes sought</span>
						<br/>
						<span>To murder him: howbeit righteous Cheiron</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">Rescued him, and that destiny he brought</span>
						<br/>
						<span>To pass which Fate had framed with hand of iron.</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">So Peleus quenched the violence of fire,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">And quelled the keen claws and the furious ire</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">Of lions dauntless-hearted, and the grim</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">Edge of the terrible teeth that threatened him,</span>
					</p>
				</section>
				<section id="nemean-4-9">
					<header>
						<p>Strophe 9</p>
					</header>
					<p>
						<span>And won to wife the Child of Nereus hoary,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Thetis the bright-throned, saw the enringing glory</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">Of seats whereon the Lords of sky and sea</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">Were throned, their bridal gifts of sovranty</span>
						<br/>
						<span>To him and his seed after him revealing,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">Even the mighty kingdoms that should be.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>But past Gadeira and the gloom concealing</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">The outsea none press. Turn the sail again</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">Of the ship backward unto Europe’s main.</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">The whole tale of the sons of Aiakus’ line</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">To tell throughout transcends all powers of mine.</span>
					</p>
				</section>
				<section id="nemean-4-10">
					<header>
						<p>Strophe 10</p>
					</header>
					<p>
						<span>I with the Clan Theandrid covenanted</span>
						<br/>
						<span>To be their herald: lo, my lips have chanted</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">Their prowess! Of those contests is my song</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">Which make the thews of champions passing strong.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Olympia, Isthmus, Nemea⁠—wheresoever</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">They prove their might amid the athlete-throng,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Without renown for fruit they turn back never</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">Home, Timasarchus, where thy clan, ’tis told,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">In victory-crowns pre-eminence doth hold.</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">If thou wouldst bid me rear, besides all these,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">Unto thy mother’s brother Kallikles</span>
					</p>
				</section>
				<section id="nemean-4-11">
					<header>
						<p>Strophe 11</p>
					</header>
					<p>
						<span>A pillar more than Parian marble splendid⁠—</span>
						<br/>
						<span>As gold when the refiner’s work is ended</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">Shows all its brightness forth, so by the lay</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">That chants great deeds in war or athlete-play</span>
						<br/>
						<span>A man is raised to heights of bliss excelling</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">The pomp of kings⁠—let him then, though to-day</span>
						<br/>
						<span>On Acheron’s shore thy Kallikles be dwelling,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">Yet catch the sound of this my voice that sings</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">On earth his praise who in the athlete-rings</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">Of the great Trident-wielder thunder-voiced</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">With brows at Corinth garland-crowned rejoiced.</span>
					</p>
				</section>
				<section id="nemean-4-12">
					<header>
						<p>Strophe 12</p>
					</header>
					<p>
						<span>His praise did Euphanes thy grandsire hoary</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Sing, fain to tell, my son, his prowess’ story.</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">Hymned by the old bards men of old have been;</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">But, whatsoe’er each singer’s self hath seen,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>That trusteth he that best of all he singeth.</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">So he that chants Melesias’ praise, I ween,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Would be as one who every rival flingeth</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">To earth, with words like wrestlers’ limbs that twine;</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">In grapple of speech yields never his mighty line⁠—</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">A courteous conqueror of a noble foe,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">He deals the churl relentless overthrow.</span>
					</p>
				</section>
			</article>
			<article id="nemean-5" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<header>
					<h3 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">V</h3>
					<p epub:type="bridgehead">For Pytheas, son of Lampon, of Aegina, (trained by Menander of Athens), on his victory in the Boys’ Pancration, <abbr epub:type="se:era">BC</abbr> 485 (?).</p>
				</header>
				<section id="nemean-5-1">
					<header>
						<p>Strophe 1</p>
					</header>
					<p>
						<span>No carver of statues am I, to fashion images moveless abiding</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">Dumb on the pedestals where men set them! Nay, sweet song of mine,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Forth do thou fare from Aegina’s haven, on every tall ship riding,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">And on every pinnace, bearing the tidings over the far sea-line</span>
						<br/>
						<span>How Pytheas, son of Lampon the stalwart-thewed, hath won the crown</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Of victory at the Nemean Games, the All-overcomer’s renown,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Ere his cheeks were flushed with the summer bloom of the soft vine-cluster’s down.</span>
					</p>
				</section>
				<section id="nemean-5-2">
					<header>
						<p>Antistrophe 1</p>
					</header>
					<p>
						<span>So to the Aiakids, hero-spearmen from Kronos and Zeus descended</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">And from the golden Nereid Sea-maids, honour hath Pytheas brought,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>And to the mother-city which alway the stranger-guest hath befriended.</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">That peopled with heroes and famed for ships she might be, this was besought</span>
						<br/>
						<span>By Endaïs’ scions the far-renowned and by princely Phokus’ might</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Who of Psamatheia the Goddess was born on the sea-beach foam-flecked white.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>By the altar they stood of Zeus the Hellenian Sire, and to heaven’s height</span>
					</p>
				</section>
				<section id="nemean-5-3">
					<header>
						<p>Epode 1</p>
					</header>
					<p>
						<span>These all together uplifted their hands, and for that boon made supplication.</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">I shrink with shame from telling the awful deed unrighteously dared,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>And the doom from Oenone that drave them forth to be men without a nation,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">And how from the far-famed island-home those mighty heroes fared.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>I refrain: not every perfect truth its face should prudently show,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>And how to be silent is oft the wisest thing that a man may know.</span>
					</p>
				</section>
				<section id="nemean-5-4">
					<header>
						<p>Strophe 2</p>
					</header>
					<p>
						<span>But and if the praise of riches or might of hands or of battleward-sweeping</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">Steel-clad war-hosts kindle the heart of the bard, let them delve me the ground</span>
						<br/>
						<span>For a long leap hence⁠—O yea, for my knees are strung for lightsome leaping.</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">Ay, an eagle am I, and the eagle’s swoop is beyond the sea-line’s bound.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Yea, for those heroes the welcoming song upon Pelion’s height was sung</span>
						<br/>
						<span>By the choir most lovely of Muses nine; and the lyre with seven chords strung</span>
						<br/>
						<span>With the golden quill in Apollo’s hand was swept till melodies rung</span>
					</p>
				</section>
				<section id="nemean-5-5">
					<header>
						<p>Antistrophe 2</p>
					</header>
					<p>
						<span>Of strains ever changing in manifold wise. The praises of Zeus they chanted;</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">Then sang they of Thetis and Peleus, and how Hippolyte, wanton child</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Of Kretheus, fain would have trapped his feet in the treachery-net that she planted;</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">And her husband, the lord of the Magnete folk, by a tale of lies she beguiled,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>And by counsel of subtlety wrought upon him to share in her own dark plot;</span>
						<br/>
						<span>For a slanderous tale of her heart’s devising, a web of deceit she wrought,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>How that Peleus had shamed her, Akastus’ queen, and his bed’s defilement sought.</span>
					</p>
				</section>
				<section id="nemean-5-6">
					<header>
						<p>Epode 2</p>
					</header>
					<p>
						<span>But contrary thereunto was the truth, for with passionate heart she besought him</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">Oft with beguiling words; but her bold speech stirred him to wrath: straightway</span>
						<br/>
						<span>He refused her embraces; with awe of the anger of Guest-ward Zeus he bethought him.</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">And Allfather, the King of Immortals, who marshals the host of the cloud-array,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Was ware thereof, and pledged by his nod that his bride ere long should be</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Of the Maids of the Golden Distaff a child of the Ancient of the Sea.</span>
					</p>
				</section>
				<section id="nemean-5-7">
					<header>
						<p>Strophe 3</p>
					</header>
					<p>
						<span>For Poseidon their kinsman’s consent would he win, who from Aigae on shores Euboean</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">Oft rideth the ridges of sea to the world-famed Dorian Isthmus, where</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Glad chorus-companies welcome the God with the reed-flutes’ ringing paean,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">And men contend in the lists with the fearless strength of lithe limbs there.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>’Tis the Fate which is linked with the hour of our birth that controlleth our whole life long</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Our actions. Thou from Aegina twice, Euthymenes<a href="endnotes.xhtml#note-21" id="noteref-21" epub:type="noteref">21</a> the strong,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Hast leapt to the arms of Victory, and hast won the guerdon of song.</span>
					</p>
				</section>
				<section id="nemean-5-8">
					<header>
						<p>Antistrophe 3</p>
					</header>
					<p>
						<span>O Pytheas, still doth thy mother’s brother honour his kin who follow</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">In the steps of one of the selfsame blood. Upon thee did Nemea smile,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>And the Delphian festal month of Aegina, ever-beloved of Apollo.</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">Triumphant wast thou o’er thine age-mates all, alike in thy native isle,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>And by Nisus’ hill of the pleasant glades. I rejoice that for glory’s crown</span>
						<br/>
						<span>In the lists of honour contendeth still Aegina’s every town.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>But forget not thy debt to Menander, through whom were thy toils repaid with renown.</span>
					</p>
				</section>
				<section id="nemean-5-9">
					<header>
						<p>Epode 3</p>
					</header>
					<p>
						<span>It is meet that of Athens a trainer be lent! If thou art come condescending</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1" id="nemean-5-line-56">To praise Themistius, Muse, shrink not! Uplift thy voice! Hoist high</span>
						<br/>
						<span>The sail to the topmast-yard! Proclaim him victor with fists contending</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">And in that strife all-overcoming, who won him a double victory</span>
						<br/>
						<span>At Epidaurus, and thence to the portals of Aiakus did he bear</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Flower-garlands with green sprays twined, led on by the Graces of golden hair.</span>
					</p>
				</section>
			</article>
			<article id="nemean-6" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<header>
					<h3 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">VI</h3>
					<p epub:type="bridgehead">For Alkimidas of Aegina, on his victory in the Boys’ wrestling-match, <abbr epub:type="se:era">BC</abbr> 463 (?). His clan, the Bassidae, had had through successive generations alternations of distinction and obscurity in the great athletic contests, thus:⁠—Agesimachus, (Sokleides), Praxidamas, (Theon), Alkimidas, those in brackets being undistinguished.</p>
				</header>
				<section id="nemean-6-1">
					<header>
						<p>Strophe 1</p>
					</header>
					<p>
						<span>One is the race of men, and one the race of Gods; but they</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">And we alike are children of the same Earth-mother’s womb.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Yet some Power wholly diverse sunders us: we fade away</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">To nought, but evermore abides their heaven’s brazen dome,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">Through all the years, the eternal years, their never-shaken home.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Yet have we something in us like the Gods, the everlasting⁠—</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">It may be this our mighty mind, our nature it may be⁠—</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Yet know we not what course by day, or ’neath night’s wings on-hasting</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">Is marked out, for our feet to run therein, by Destiny.</span>
					</p>
				</section>
				<section id="nemean-6-2">
					<header>
						<p>Antistrophe 1</p>
					</header>
					<p>
						<span>Now, now Alkimidas hath proved, plain for all eyes to see,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">That this his House is like the fields that flame with golden grain,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Which, in the alternating years, now yield abundantly</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">To toiling men the bread of life that loads the laughing plain,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">And in the year thereafter rest, to gather strength again.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Lo, now Aegina’s athlete-son, from where in Nemea holden</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">Are those heart-gladdening contests, cometh home, who, following</span>
						<br/>
						<span>The course whose chart was by the destiny of Zeus unfolden,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">Hath proved no baffled glory-hunter in the wrestling-ring.</span>
					</p>
				</section>
				<section id="nemean-6-3">
					<header>
						<p>Epode 1</p>
					</header>
					<p>
						<span>His feet along the footprints of Praxidamas have raced,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Even those by one of his own blood, his father’s father, traced,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Who, in Olympia victor, first brought home the olive-spray</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i4">For Aiakus’ princely line’s renown,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i4">Five times at Isthmus won the crown,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>At Nemea thrice, and wiped Sokleides’ deedless stain away,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Of sons of Agesimachus the eldest⁠—yet ungraced.</span>
					</p>
				</section>
				<section id="nemean-6-4">
					<header>
						<p>Strophe 2</p>
					</header>
					<p>
						<span>Howbeit he saw the crown of prowess won by athletes three,<a href="endnotes.xhtml#note-22" id="noteref-22" epub:type="noteref">22</a></span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">His sons, who dared the trial, and achieved. By Heaven’s aid,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>There is none other house beside that is by victory</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">Proclaimed the holder of more crowns in that stern strife essayed</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">At Hellas’ inmost heart with gauntlets in the olive-glade.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Straight flew mine arrow to the mark, though I have told their story</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">In vaunting strain; yet none the less true rang my bowstring then.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Come, O my Muse, unto this victor waft thy gale of glory,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">The breath of song! For when from earth have passed her mighty men,</span>
					</p>
				</section>
				<section id="nemean-6-5">
					<header>
						<p>Antistrophe 2</p>
					</header>
					<p>
						<span>Then rescued from oblivion are their noble deeds by lay</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">And legend. Oh, the Bassid Clan hath little lack of these,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>That house of ancient fame! A freight of triumph-song bear they⁠—</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">’Tis all their own. Well may their stately march of victories</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">Inspire the bards who till the fields of the Pierides</span>
						<br/>
						<span>With plenteous theme for song! ’Neath Phoebus’ temple’s holy shadow</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">One of the blood of this same clan, his strong hands gauntlet-bound,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Kallias, won his house a victory in Pytho’s meadow,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">Who erst with Golden-distaff Leto’s children favour found.</span>
					</p>
				</section>
				<section id="nemean-6-6">
					<header>
						<p>Epode 2</p>
					</header>
					<p>
						<span>And brightly blazed at eventide his name by Castaly,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>When rang the Graces’ chant. The Bridge ’twixt sea and tireless sea</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Gave honour to Kreontidas at that feast where the blood</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i4">Of bulls in third-year feasts is poured</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i4">Forth in the close of the Sea-lord.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Brow-shadowed by the Lion’s herb of Nemea once he stood</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Victor ’neath Phlius’ ancient hill dark-draped with many a tree.</span>
					</p>
				</section>
				<section id="nemean-6-7">
					<header>
						<p>Strophe 3</p>
					</header>
					<p>
						<span>For bards who tell the tale of old-time legend, broad and fair</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">On every hand stretch out the avenues that open lie</span>
						<br/>
						<span>To glorify this world-famed isle: to her folk the Aiakids there</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">By their example gave of mighty deeds high destiny.</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">Across the land, across the sea, their name’s renown flies high.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Yea, even to the Aethiop folk, who saw not home returning</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">Alive their chieftain Memnon, leapt that terrible renown</span>
						<br/>
						<span>What time Achilles hurled on them grim conflict, vengeance-burning</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">For Nestor’s son, and from his car to Troy’s red plain sprang down,</span>
					</p>
				</section>
				<section id="nemean-6-8">
					<header>
						<p>Antistrophe 3</p>
					</header>
					<p>
						<span>And when the point of that wrath-gleaming spear laid low the son</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">Of splendour-glowing Dawn. This was the track oft trod before,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>A chariot-highway, where the bards of olden time rode on.</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">And I too follow in their path, inspired by legend-lore.</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">Yet still the wave that nighest rolls unto the steering-oar</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Disquiets most the shipman’s heart; so, twofold burden bearing,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">Alkimidas, on willing shoulders, to thy land I speed.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>A messenger to tell that thou, thy new-won glory sharing</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">With thy far-famous house, this five-and-twentieth triumph-meed</span>
					</p>
				</section>
				<section id="nemean-6-9">
					<header>
						<p>Epode 3</p>
					</header>
					<p>
						<span>Hast gained in those proud conflict-lists which men name “Games Divine.”</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Yea also, and the hope of Polytimidas, and thine</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Of garlands twain in Kronius’ close were snatched, my son, from thee</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i4">By chance of lots. None can surpass</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i4">In training-lore Melesias:</span>
						<br/>
						<span>He guides, like cunning charioteer, athletes to victory,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Teaching a swiftness fleet as dolphin dashing through the brine.</span>
					</p>
				</section>
			</article>
			<article id="nemean-7" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<header>
					<h3 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">VII</h3>
					<p epub:type="bridgehead">For Sogenes of Aegina, on his victory in the Boys’ Pentathlon, <abbr epub:type="se:era">BC</abbr> 485 (?).</p>
				</header>
				<section id="nemean-7-1">
					<header>
						<p>Strophe 1</p>
					</header>
					<p>
						<span>O Eileithyia enthroned for ever</span>
						<br/>
						<span>By the Destinies deeply-brooding, hearken,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Thou Daughter of Hera the mighty, O giver</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">Of birth unto babes! Unholpen of thee</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">Never a child of man may see</span>
						<br/>
						<span>The day-dawn break or the even darken;</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">Nor ever thy sister may we behold,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">Young Hebe with limbs of glorious mould.</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">We receive not our breath for a like life all,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">But to each doth his several destiny fall.</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">We are fettered by Fate. By thy grace alone</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">Chanted to-day are the glorious feats</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">Wrought in the contest of pentathletes</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">By Sogenes, son of Thearion.</span>
					</p>
				</section>
				<section id="nemean-7-2">
					<header>
						<p>Antistrophe 1</p>
					</header>
					<p>
						<span>For he dwells in a city where cannot perish</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Delight in song, where rule spear-clashing</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Aiakids: eager are they to cherish</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">A spirit in strife of the Games well-tried.</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">If a man by achievements be glorified,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>He hath dropped on the Muses’ rills sun-flashing</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">Honey-sweet matter for song-delight.</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">For shrouded in gloom of oblivion’s night</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">Are mighty deeds that be left unsung.</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">One mirror alone do we know that hath flung</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">Their reflection afar to endure for long,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">If by grace of the Lady of Memory</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">Of the shining coronal, these may see</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">Their requital for toils in ringing song.</span>
					</p>
				</section>
				<section id="nemean-7-3">
					<header>
						<p>Epode 1</p>
					</header>
					<p>
						<span>Wise shipmen know, though the fair wind tarry,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">It will blow on the third day; therefore they wait</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Patiently, letting not gain-lust carry</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">Their freight to destruction. The small and the great</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">Alike to the bourne of death pass down.</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">But I deem that Odysseus inherits renown</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">Far, far surpassing his sufferings,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">Through the sweet-voiced lay that Homer sings.</span>
					</p>
				</section>
				<section id="nemean-7-4">
					<header>
						<p>Strophe 2</p>
					</header>
					<p>
						<span>For over his winged poet-craft and its feigning</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Hath some strange glamour of majesty brooded;</span>
						<br/>
						<span>And beguiled by his inspiration’s constraining</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">Through his realm of faery lost we stray.</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">Ah, the general throng of mortals aye</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Are blinded of heart! Were their eyes not hooded</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">From discerning the truth, never Aias the strong,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">For the armour wroth, as is told in song,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">Had thrust through his heart the sword smooth-bright⁠—</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">Aias, the mightiest man in fight,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">Save Achilles, of all that to Ilium fared</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">By the west-wind wafted over the tide</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">With breath unswerving, to rescue the bride</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">Of Menelaus the golden-haired.</span>
					</p>
				</section>
				<section id="nemean-7-5">
					<header>
						<p>Antistrophe 2</p>
					</header>
					<p>
						<span>Over all men alike the dark surge sweepeth</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Of Hades, on fameless heads hath descended</span>
						<br/>
						<span>And on men of renown: but honour keepeth</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">Their memories green whose after-fame</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">God causeth to wax ever fairer, the name</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Of battle-helpers whose days are ended,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">Even such as in old time journeyed on</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">Unto wide-bosomed earth’s great navel-stone.</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">So buried ’neath Pytho’s floor doth lie</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">Neoptolemus, there foredoomed to die</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">When Priam’s town had been sacked by his hand,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">Where also the Danaans travailed sore.</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">But he missed on the home-voyage Skyros’ shore;</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">So wandering came they to Ephyre-land.</span>
					</p>
				</section>
				<section id="nemean-7-6">
					<header>
						<p>Epode 2</p>
					</header>
					<p>
						<span>Short time in Molossia the mighty-hearted</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">Reigned; but the honour was borne evermore</span>
						<br/>
						<span>By the hero’s posterity. Thence he departed</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">To the shrine of Apollo, and thitherward bore</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">Rich treasure, the choicest of all the prey</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">That was gathered from Troy. But there, in a fray</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">Embroiled touching sacrifice-meats, by the knife</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">Was he slain of a treacherous lover of strife.</span>
					</p>
				</section>
				<section id="nemean-7-7">
					<header>
						<p>Strophe 3</p>
					</header>
					<p>
						<span>But the Delphians were stricken with grief heart-thrilling⁠—</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Guest-welcomers they:⁠—howbeit so dying</span>
						<br/>
						<span>His fate foredoomed was he but fulfilling;</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">For in that most ancient hallowed place</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">Was it destined that one of the royal race</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Of the Aiakids should through the ages be lying</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">By Apollo’s mansion of fair-walled pride,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">And should over the hero-processions preside,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">That Justice’s fair name none may despise.</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">And, touching the issue, three words shall suffice:</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">No false witness is he, who there</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">Sitteth umpire o’er deeds by the mighty wrought.</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">Aegina, I fear not to utter my thought</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">Of the children whom thou unto Zeus didst bear,</span>
					</p>
				</section>
				<section id="nemean-7-8">
					<header>
						<p>Antistrophe 3</p>
					</header>
					<p>
						<span>Even this⁠—they have trodden a highway of glory</span>
						<br/>
						<span>By inheritance theirs; through deeds most mighty</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Have they won it⁠—yet needs not to dwell on their story.</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">Sweetly doth rest after labour come:</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">Even honey may cloy, and the flowers that bloom</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Delightsome in gardens of Aphrodite.</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">Diversely all men’s natures be wrought,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">And each man draweth his several lot</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">In life; but if any man think to attain</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">Unto bliss all-perfect, his hope is vain.</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">None know I to whom I can say that Fate</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">This consummation hath granted, to be</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">Inalienable. Thearion, thee</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">In season she bringeth to happy state;</span>
					</p>
				</section>
				<section id="nemean-7-9">
					<header>
						<p>Epode 3</p>
					</header>
					<p>
						<span>Thou hast shown aforetime a spirit daring</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">In gallant deeds: Fate suffereth not</span>
						<br/>
						<span>That thy wisdom now know any impairing.</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">Thy guest-friend I, I abhor the thought</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">Of slander stealing in darkness to stain</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">The man that I love; nay, praise will I rain</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">Upon him, and crown him with glory; this</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">For the noble of heart meet guerdon is.</span>
					</p>
				</section>
				<section id="nemean-7-10">
					<header>
						<p>Strophe 4</p>
					</header>
					<p>
						<span>Nay, if any Achaian of those abiding</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Beside the Ionian sea be near me,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>He shall nowise blame me: I rest confiding</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">On my friendship-tie: mid the folk of my land</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">With clear gaze meeting their eyes I stand.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Of the charge of presumptuous dealing I clear me;</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">All violence thrust I, a hater of strife,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">From my feet. May the residue of my life</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">Flow blithesomely! He shall testify</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">Who knoweth me, whether with slander and lie</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">I jangle the music of life as I go.</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">Sogenes, son of the Eupatrid Clan,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">The mark-line never I overran</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">When I shot swift speech⁠—as one that should throw</span>
					</p>
				</section>
				<section id="nemean-7-11">
					<header>
						<p>Antistrophe 4</p>
					</header>
					<p>
						<span>The bronze-headed dart with a cast that delivers<a href="endnotes.xhtml#note-23" id="noteref-23" epub:type="noteref">23</a></span>
						<br/>
						<span>Neck and sinew from wrestling with sweat down-pouring</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Ere the limbs strain hard where the sunglare quivers⁠—</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">Never, I swear it! If toil there hath been,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">The delight that succeedeth is yet more keen.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Nay, forgive, if my song over-loudly was soaring</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">For old times’ glory! In these my lays</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">No niggard am I of the victor’s praise.</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">Easy it is flower-garlands to twine;</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">Nay, but tarry a space till this Muse of mine</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">Shall have knit the gold to the ivory</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">And the lily-like blossom of stone that she drew<a href="endnotes.xhtml#note-24" id="noteref-24" epub:type="noteref">24</a></span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">From the depths where it lurked beneath spray-dew</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">That falls on the face of the slumbrous sea.</span>
					</p>
				</section>
				<section id="nemean-7-12">
					<header>
						<p>Epode 4</p>
					</header>
					<p>
						<span>But bethink thee of Zeus the while thou raisest</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">For Nemean triumph the far-ringing song</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Soft-swelling. ’Tis meet that the while thou praisest</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">Him who sitteth enthroned the Immortals among,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">Such praise be chanted in this your land</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">With reverent voice by the chorus-band,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">For that here of his seed begotten, ’tis sung,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">Of an Isle-nymph mother hath Aiakus sprung</span>
					</p>
				</section>
				<section id="nemean-7-13">
					<header>
						<p>Strophe 5</p>
					</header>
					<p>
						<span>To be for the fair-famed land of his mother</span>
						<br/>
						<span>A ruler of cities, in all thy labour</span>
						<br/>
						<span>To be ever a loyal friend and brother,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">O Heracles! If a man may prove</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">Of his fellow-man any fruition of love,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Then well may we say that neighbour to neighbour</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">Is a joy that is worth all else beside</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">If with steadfast heart in his love he abide.</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">Now if also a God will sanction this,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">By thy favour, O queller of giants, it is</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">That, rendering aye love-homage meet</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">To his father, fain would Sogenes</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">Dwell mid ancestral memories</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">In the stately-builded sacred street</span>
					</p>
				</section>
				<section id="nemean-7-14">
					<header>
						<p>Antistrophe 5</p>
					</header>
					<p>
						<span>Where his home ’twixt thy temples doth stand, which face him</span>
						<br/>
						<span>At his goings forth, as with blessing laden:</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Like a chariot’s twin yokes, so they embrace him.</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">And thee, O Heracles ever-blest,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">It beseemeth to win to grant his request</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Hera’s Lord and the grey-eyed Maiden.</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">For oft upon mortals canst thou bestow</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">Help in the hour of the bitter woe</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">Of hopelessly tangled perplexities.</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">Oh wouldst thou but link with the life of these</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">All steadfast strength, through youth’s glad day</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">Weaving its web of happiness still</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">Till an easeful eld thy task fulfil!</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">May their children’s children possess for aye</span>
					</p>
				</section>
				<section id="nemean-7-15">
					<header>
						<p>Epode 5</p>
					</header>
					<p>
						<span>The honour that now is theirs, and ever</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">Win greater glory in days to be!</span>
						<br/>
						<span>But with all my soul I protest that never</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">Hath Neoptolemus’ name by me</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">Been befouled by slander dishonouring!⁠—<a href="endnotes.xhtml#note-25" id="noteref-25" epub:type="noteref">25</a></span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">Yet thrice, four times to repeat this thing</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">Is folly like his of whom children tire</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">As he babbles “Corinth hath Zeus for sire.”</span>
					</p>
				</section>
			</article>
			<article id="nemean-8" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<header>
					<h3 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">VIII</h3>
					<p epub:type="bridgehead">For Deinias of Aegina, on his victory in the quarter-mile (double-stadium) race, <abbr epub:type="se:era">BC</abbr> 459(?).</p>
				</header>
				<section id="nemean-8-1">
					<header>
						<p>Strophe 1</p>
					</header>
					<p>
						<span>Queen of the beauty of youth, thou herald of Aphrodite’s celestial yearning,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Who on eyelids of boys and of maidens enthroned, in hands spell-weaving for ever art turning</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">Our destinies to and fro, unto this man allotting joy, and to that man grief,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Sweet is it for one who hath transgressed never in aught that he doeth the right’s due measure</span>
						<br/>
						<span>To be suffered to grasp the fulfilment of life’s most noble aims, of his heart’s dream-treasure.</span>
					</p>
				</section>
				<section id="nemean-8-2">
					<header>
						<p>Antistrophe 1</p>
					</header>
					<p>
						<span>Such spirits were they who dispensed the Cyprian’s gifts in the hour of the love-communion</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Of Olympian Zeus and the Nymph Aegina, and born was Oenone’s king of their union,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">One peerless in prowess and counsel; and many a time men prayed to behold that chief;</span>
						<br/>
						<span>For of all the heroes that dwelt around him exceeding fain were their goodliest flower,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Unchallenged of any, to bow in subjection before him, obeying his sovran power,</span>
					</p>
				</section>
				<section id="nemean-8-3">
					<header>
						<p>Epode 1</p>
					</header>
					<p>
						<span>Alike the heroes that marshalled the host in Athens’ crag-built town,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>And they that in Sparta traced their long descent from Pelops down.</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">Lo, I come as a suppliant clasping the holy knees of Aiakus, bringing</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">For his city and people a Lydian crown fair-woven, with sweet song ringing,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>For the foot-race victories Deinias and Megas his father at Nemea won;</span>
						<br/>
						<span>For longest enduring mid men is prosperity sown with the blessing of God thereon;</span>
					</p>
				</section>
				<section id="nemean-8-4">
					<header>
						<p>Strophe 2</p>
					</header>
					<p>
						<span>So of old were riches on Kinyras heaped in Cyprus ringed with the sea-crests hoary.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Lo, upon light-poised feet do I stand, drawing breath till again I take up the story;</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">For in manifold wise many tales have been told; but to coin new thoughts and to put to assay</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Of the touchstone⁠—this is perilous all. A dainty morsel are heroes’ praises</span>
						<br/>
						<span>For envy’s fang: she leaps on the great, but against the mean not a hand she raises.</span>
					</p>
				</section>
				<section id="nemean-8-5">
					<header>
						<p>Antistrophe 2</p>
					</header>
					<p>
						<span>By her was Telamon’s son devoured, by whose hand through his side was his own sword driven.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>For the tongue-tied, how stout soever of heart, when the bitter strife of words is striven,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">Is oblivion’s thrall; but shiftful lying beareth the goodliest guerdons away.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>For by fraudful voting the Danaans showed to Odysseus favour, for truth uncaring;</span>
						<br/>
						<span>And Aias, robbed of the golden armour, wrestled with death in his mad despairing.</span>
					</p>
				</section>
				<section id="nemean-8-6">
					<header>
						<p>Epode 2</p>
					</header>
					<p>
						<span>Ha, diverse the wounds were they tore in the quivering flesh of foes, these twain,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>When under the onset of storming spears men reeled in the battle-strain</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">Now o’er the fresh-stricken corse of Achilles, anon in the conflict-travail</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">Of days wide-ruining! Ay, for of old the hate of malignant cavil</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Consorted with cunning speech, and imagined deceit and the venomous sneer. Ah yes,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>The bright names still it assails, and exalts the abjects’ fame which is rottenness.</span>
					</p>
				</section>
				<section id="nemean-8-7">
					<header>
						<p>Strophe 3</p>
					</header>
					<p>
						<span>Never in me be such spirit as this, O Father Zeus! May I still be cleaving</span>
						<br/>
						<span>To the paths of a life of innocency, and so unto death may I pass down, leaving</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">To my sons no name of evil repute! Some pray for gold, and others for land</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Without limit: be I to my fellow-men well-pleasing, ever extolling the lover</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Of righteousness, ever rebuking the doer of wrong, till the earth my limbs shall cover.</span>
					</p>
				</section>
				<section id="nemean-8-8">
					<header>
						<p>Antistrophe 3</p>
					</header>
					<p>
						<span>Ever groweth the fame of a noble life, as a tree that is quickened by dews down-drifted:</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Yea, so by poets inspired and righteous high as the heavens its glory is lifted.</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">Of manifold sort be the uses of friends; but the chiefest of all is the helping hand</span>
						<br/>
						<span>In trouble. Yet also doth happiness crave some certain assurance of bliss to inherit.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>It is nowise within my power, O Megas, to call back again into life thy spirit:</span>
					</p>
				</section>
				<section id="nemean-8-9">
					<header>
						<p>Epode 3</p>
					</header>
					<p>
						<span>Nay, vain is the end of baseless hopes! Yet for thee and thy Chariad line</span>
						<br/>
						<span>I lightly may rear a pillar of song for feet of fair omen, thine</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">And thy son’s. With gladness unfeigned am I now the exultant praise outpealing</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">That befitteth your deeds. By the spell of song hath the singer oft brought healing</span>
						<br/>
						<span>To the faintness of toil: yea, victory-chants processional rang in the olden days,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Long ere the flame of the feud ’twixt Kadmus’ sons and Adrastus began to blaze.</span>
					</p>
				</section>
			</article>
			<article id="nemean-9" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<header>
					<h3 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">IX</h3>
					<p epub:type="bridgehead">For Chromius of Etna, on a victory in the chariot-race, won, not at Nemea, but at Sikyon. <abbr epub:type="se:era">BC</abbr> 474 (?).</p>
				</header>
				<section id="nemean-9-1">
					<header>
						<p>Strophe 1</p>
					</header>
					<p>
						<span>We will lead the revel, O Queens of Song, from Apollo’s Sikyonian fane</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Unto new-built Etna⁠—whose doors flung wide are too strait the throng of her guests to contain⁠—</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">On unto Chromius’ wealthy palace. Upraise ye the chant of lips sweet-singing!</span>
						<br/>
						<span>He hath mounted his car of the steeds triumphant, proclaiming a hymn in the Mother’s praise</span>
						<br/>
						<span>And of her twin offspring who ward in fellowship Pytho through everlasting days</span>
					</p>
				</section>
				<section id="nemean-9-2">
					<header>
						<p>Strophe 2</p>
					</header>
					<p>
						<span>A saying there is among men⁠—“<em>It befits not that great deeds done he amerced of fame</em></span>
						<br/>
						<span><em>And he buried in earth.</em>” The chant celestial is meet the renown of such to acclaim.</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">Awake, awake ye the pealing lyre, awake the flute in the honour ringing</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Of the crown of contests of steeds which Adrastus founded in Phoebus’ name beside</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Asopus’ streams! When I tell their renown, in my far-ringing praise shall be magnified</span>
					</p>
				</section>
				<section id="nemean-9-3">
					<header>
						<p>Strophe 3</p>
					</header>
					<p>
						<span>That hero-king who exalted his city and made it glorious, reigning there,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>With festivals new, and contests of strength of the athlete, and chariots carven fair,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">Being exiled from Argos his home ancestral by Amphiaraus the aweless hearted</span>
						<br/>
						<span>And by baleful sedition; for Talaus’ sons were lords no longer therein, overborne</span>
						<br/>
						<span>By civil strife. When a stronger cometh, a realm from the rightful possessor is torn.</span>
					</p>
				</section>
				<section id="nemean-9-4">
					<header>
						<p>Strophe 4</p>
					</header>
					<p>
						<span>Yet the Talaïds gave for a pledge of alliance the woman destined her lord to betray,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Eriphyle, to Oikles’ son; and now of the bright-haired Danaans greatest were they;</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">And leading a valorous host of men on a march ill-omened to Thebes they departed,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>To the burg seven-gated: but Kronos’ Son would speed them not from their home to fare</span>
						<br/>
						<span>In their madness of heart, but hurling the flickering levin he bade from the journey forbear.</span>
					</p>
				</section>
				<section id="nemean-9-5">
					<header>
						<p>Strophe 5</p>
					</header>
					<p>
						<span>And so to a doom foreshown to their eyes that company marched with spear and targe</span>
						<br/>
						<span>All-brazen, and war-steed trappings;⁠—and there for ever they left on Ismenus’ marge</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">Sweet hope of their home-return, and fed with their war-grej^ corpses the smoke upsoaring.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Seven pyres ravined up those young men’s limbs; but for Amphiaraus Zeus with the might</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Of his thunderbolt clave broad-breasted earth, and hid the man and his steeds from sight</span>
					</p>
				</section>
				<section id="nemean-9-6">
					<header>
						<p>Strophe 6</p>
					</header>
					<p>
						<span>Ere his warrior-soul should be shamed by a thrust in the back from Periklymenus’ spear:</span>
						<br/>
						<span>For when panic is sent from Heaven, even the sons of the Gods must flee in fear.</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">If it be possible, O Kronion, such trial of manhood with spears blood-pouring,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Such struggle for hfe and death, I fain would defer to the uttermost. Nay, I implore,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Grant thou to the sons of Etna a portion in governance fair for evermore,</span>
					</p>
				</section>
				<section id="nemean-9-7">
					<header>
						<p>Strophe 7</p>
					</header>
					<p>
						<span>Zeus Father, and wed her people to pageant-splendours through gladsome streets outrolled.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Lo, there dwell chariot-lovers and men who have spirits above the lust of gold;⁠—</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">Sooth, hard to believe is the thing I have said: greed steals away honour by secret cajoling,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Honour, renown-bringer. Hadst thou to Chromius been shield-bearer in battle’s day</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Mid footmen or horsemen, or clash of ships, thou hadst judged what peril he faced in the fray.</span>
					</p>
				</section>
				<section id="nemean-9-8">
					<header>
						<p>Strophe 8</p>
					</header>
					<p>
						<span>For in war it was Honour the Goddess that girded his warrior-spirit with might to withstand</span>
						<br/>
						<span>The War-god’s havoc of onslaught. Few there are that have strength of heart and hand</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">Backward to hurl on the foemen’s ranks the imminent war-cloud nearer rolling.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Yet is it told how Hector’s fame bloomed fair by Skamander in those old wars;</span>
						<br/>
						<span>And even so on the banks of Helorus, the deep-channelled stream walled in by scaurs,</span>
					</p>
				</section>
				<section id="nemean-9-9">
					<header>
						<p>Strophe 9</p>
					</header>
					<p>
						<span>At the ford men call the Passage of Rhea dawned his light of victory</span>
						<br/>
						<span>On Agesidamus’ son in his earliest manhood: in days thereafter hath he</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">Won many a triumph on dust-grey plains and on neighbour seas: I will tell their story.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>But to toils by the strength of youth and the Right achieved there succeedeth when eld draws nigh</span>
						<br/>
						<span>An even of calm. Let him know he is dowered with wondrous bliss by the Dwellers on high.</span>
					</p>
				</section>
				<section id="nemean-9-10">
					<header>
						<p>Strophe 10</p>
					</header>
					<p>
						<span>For if any, together with wealth abounding, have won him renown far-shining bright,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>It can nowise be that a mortal’s feet may attain any loftier mountain-height.</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">Peace loveth the banquet: a conqueror’s fame like a tree grows with fresh-blossoming glory</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Watered by soft-dropping dews of song. By the goblet the bard’s voice waxeth bold.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Let them mingle the mazer that heraldeth sweetly triumph’s processional-chant outrolled,</span>
					</p>
				</section>
				<section id="nemean-9-11">
					<header>
						<p>Strophe 11</p>
					</header>
					<p>
						<span>And in silver chalices bear around to the feasters the potent child of the vine,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>In the cups that Chromius’ horses won him, and sent with the wreaths that for victors they twine</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">In Phoebus’ honour in holy Sikyon. Zeus, let me chant the fame, I implore thee,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Of Chromius’ prowess by help of the Graces, and outsing every rival in praise</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Of his victory, hurling my shaft of song true-aimed to the mark that the Muses place.</span>
					</p>
				</section>
			</article>
			<article id="nemean-10" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<header>
					<h3 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">X</h3>
					<p epub:type="bridgehead">For Theaius of Argos, on his victory in wrestling at Argos, <abbr epub:type="se:era">BC</abbr> 463 (?). He had previously been victor in wrestling at the Pythian, Nemean, and Isthmian Games, and was in training for the Olympian.</p>
				</header>
				<section id="nemean-10-1">
					<header>
						<p>Strophe 1</p>
					</header>
					<p>
						<span>Sing, Graces, the city of Danaus and of his fifty daughters splendour-throned,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Argos the dwelling of Hera, meet for a Goddess: she shineth starry-zoned</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">With countless achievements of chivalrous deeds of valiant heroes’ essaying,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">Overlong to tell were the story of Perseus, the tale of the Gorgon’s slaying.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Many the cities were that were founded by Epaphus’ hands in Egypt-land.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Nor Hypermnestra from duty erred when alone she resolved to unsheathe not the brand.</span>
					</p>
				</section>
				<section id="nemean-10-2">
					<header>
						<p>Antistrophe 1</p>
					</header>
					<p>
						<span>And Diomedes immortal was made by a Goddess, the golden-haired, grey-eyed.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Stricken with thunderbolts of Zeus the earth at the gates of Thebes yawned wide,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">And swallowed up Oikles’ son the seer, a storm-cloud battle-laden.</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">And peerless the land from of old is in beauty of fair-tressed matron and maiden:</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Yea, this Zeus testified, thitherward coming for love of Alkmene and Danae.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>In Adrastus’ father and Lynkeus the fruit of wisdom and justice blended she.</span>
					</p>
				</section>
				<section id="nemean-10-3">
					<header>
						<p>Epode 1</p>
					</header>
					<p>
						<span>And she nursed the spear-renown of Amphitryon: mailed in bronze he went forth to fight</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Teleboan foes, and was raised the while to the crowning summit of fortune’s height,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">Being linked in affinity with Zeus, for then did the King of Immortals,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">Taking upon him Amphitryon’s form, pass in through the palace-portals,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>And aweless Heracles there he begat, who hath Hebe, of Goddesses fairest, for bride</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Who with Hera her mother walks in Olympus, walks at the Marriage-perfecter’s side.</span>
					</p>
				</section>
				<section id="nemean-10-4">
					<header>
						<p>Strophe 2</p>
					</header>
					<p>
						<span>Ah, but my tongue would fail me to tell all glories wherein the hallowed close</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Of Argos hath shared; and ill to encounter is jealousy of praise-weary foes.</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">Yet, yet awaken the lyre of the lovely strings! Be thy rapt meditation</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">Of the prowess of wrestlers! The strife for the buckler of bronze forth summons a nation</span>
						<br/>
						<span>To the sacrifice of oxen to Hera, to conflict’s decision, where Oulias’ son,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Theaius, the twice-triumphant, to rest from the toils so unflinchingly borne hath won.</span>
					</p>
				</section>
				<section id="nemean-10-5">
					<header>
						<p>Antistrophe 2</p>
					</header>
					<p>
						<span>And at Pytho once o’er the Hellene host was he victor, and won by the gracious will</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Of Fortune at Isthmus and Nemea crowns; and he gave to the Muses new acres to till</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">Thrice at the mountain-gates of the sea in the athlete-contests excelling,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">And thrice on the hallowed ground where stood mid pastures Adrastus’ dwelling.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Zeus Father, his lips are sealed, but thou knowest his heart’s desire, for in thine hands rest</span>
						<br/>
						<span>All issues of deeds. He prayeth thy grace with a toil-strong heart, with a dauntless breast.</span>
					</p>
				</section>
				<section id="nemean-10-6">
					<header>
						<p>Epode 2</p>
					</header>
					<p>
						<span>All that I sing is known unto him and to whoso striveth to win the crown</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Of that which of athlete-contests is chief⁠—yea, Pisa beareth the highest renown</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">In Heracles’ ordinance;⁠—yet was it sweet, that strain for his victory ringing,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">When mid sacred Athenian rites he twice heard voices the prelude singing</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Of processional chants, and the limpid fruit of the olive to Hera’s city came</span>
						<br/>
						<span>In shrines fire-hardened, in pictured vases, unto the folk of heroic fame.</span>
					</p>
				</section>
				<section id="nemean-10-7">
					<header>
						<p>Strophe 3</p>
					</header>
					<p>
						<span>Full often, Theaius, the glory of contests triumphant attendeth the far-famed race</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Of thy mother’s sires by the Graces’ favour, and by the Tyndarid heroes’ grace.</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">Were I unto Thrasyklus kinsman, and Antias, then with assurance unfailing</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">I would claim in Argos proudly to walk, the light of mine eyes never veiling.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>For with how many victories hath this city of fleet steeds blossomed, this Proitus’ town!</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Four times in Corinthian glens and from hands of Kleonae’s sons she received the crown;</span>
					</p>
				</section>
				<section id="nemean-10-8">
					<header>
						<p>Antistrophe 3</p>
					</header>
					<p>
						<span>And from Sikyon home with silver laden they came, with cups for the blood of the vine;</span>
						<br/>
						<span>And they fared from Pellene with shoulders mantled with woof of the fleece soft-woven fine.</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">But the countless prizes of works of bronze, their tale can we nowise measure⁠—</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">For the time would fail us to reckon their number, too brief were all our leisure⁠—</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Which Kleitor and Tegea-town, and the burgs Achaian each on her mountain-throne,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>And the Hill Lykaian by Zeus’ course, offered, by prowess of feet and of hands to be won.</span>
					</p>
				</section>
				<section id="nemean-10-9">
					<header>
						<p>Epode 3</p>
					</header>
					<p>
						<span>Since Kastor and Polydeukes his brother came for guest-welcome to Pamphaes,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>No marvel it is that ever thereafter it should be inborn in the race of these</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">To be mighty men in the athlete-lists, for these twain, warders abiding</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">Of the wide-spreading dancing-lawns of Sparta, still unseen are presiding</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Along with Hermes and Heracles, and mete out all fair governance due;</span>
						<br/>
						<span>And to righteous men they have great regard, for the race of the Gods is faithful and true.</span>
					</p>
				</section>
				<section id="nemean-10-10">
					<header>
						<p>Strophe 4</p>
					</header>
					<p>
						<span>Now these twin brethren with lives interchanging pass with their father Zeus one day;</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Through the next in the crypts of the underworld where the gorge of Therapnae yawns must they stay;</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">And so fulfil they an equal lot, for, when the choice was given,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">Thus Polydeukes willed to live, and not to abide in Heaven</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Alway and wholly a brotherless God, when Kastor his brother perished in fight:</span>
						<br/>
						<span>For him did Idas, wroth for the raided kine, with the point of his bronze spear smite.</span>
					</p>
				</section>
				<section id="nemean-10-11">
					<header>
						<p>Antistrophe 4</p>
					</header>
					<p>
						<span>For down from Taÿgetus Lynkeus gazing afar, in an oak’s hollow trunk had espied</span>
						<br/>
						<span>These twain in ambush; for he of all men dwelling on earth was keenest-eyed.</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">And straightway thither did Idas and Lynkeus hasten with feet swift-flying,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">And suddenly compassed an awful deed when low lay Kastor dying.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Yet they suffered, those sons of Aphareus, dread retribution at Zeus’ hands. Came straightway</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Leda’s son Polydeukes in chase: by the tomb of their father they turned to bay.</span>
					</p>
				</section>
				<section id="nemean-10-12">
					<header>
						<p>Epode 4</p>
					</header>
					<p>
						<span>Thence did they wrench the carven stone which graceth the dead who in Hades lie,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>And hurled it against Polydeukes’ breast; howbeit they crushed him not thereby,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">Nor drave him backward; but onward he rushed with his lance as the lightning flashing,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">And sped against Lynkeus the brazen point thereof through the ribs of him crashing.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>And Zeus against Idas hurled a smouldering thunderbolt of fiery glow.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>So together unmourned were the twain consumed. Hard is it to strive with a mightier foe.</span>
					</p>
				</section>
				<section id="nemean-10-13">
					<header>
						<p>Strophe 5</p>
					</header>
					<p>
						<span>Thence to his mighty brother Kastor Tyndareus’ son returned straightway,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>And not yet dead he found him, but drawing his breath in shuddering gasps he lay.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Then from his eyes the hot tears burst, and broken with groanings panted</span>
						<br/>
						<span>His wild cry forth, “O Father Kronion, shall no release be granted</span>
						<br/>
						<span>From anguish? With this my brother, O King, command thou that death take also me!</span>
						<br/>
						<span>From a man bereaved of friends is the glory departed; in suffering few there be</span>
					</p>
				</section>
				<section id="nemean-10-14">
					<header>
						<p>Antistrophe 5</p>
					</header>
					<p>
						<span>“That will loyally share with a man his trouble!” So cried he; and Zeus before him stood</span>
						<br/>
						<span>And in this wise spake: “Mine own son thou art, but he that lieth here in his blood</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">Was after thee gotten of mortal seed by the hero-lord of thy mother.</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">But nathless choices twain do I grant unto thee; choose one or other:</span>
						<br/>
						<span>If thy will be from death to escape and from grey old age that all men hate and fear,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>And to dwell in Olympus with me and Athene and Ares of darkness-shrouded spear,</span>
					</p>
				</section>
				<section id="nemean-10-15">
					<header>
						<p>Epode 5</p>
					</header>
					<p>
						<span>“This lot is thine to take; but if for thy brother thou strivest so earnestly</span>
						<br/>
						<span>That steadfastly minded thou art that he shall in all things equally share with thee,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">Then for the half of thy time shalt thou breathe with the underworld-gloom enfolden,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">And for half thy time shall thy dwelling be in Heaven’s palaces golden.”</span>
						<br/>
						<span>So spake the Father, and not for a moment doubted the son as touching his choice.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>And the death-smitten eyes of bronze-mailed Kastor did Zeus unseal, and unchained his voice.</span>
					</p>
				</section>
			</article>
			<article id="nemean-11" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<header>
					<h3 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">XI</h3>
					<p epub:type="bridgehead">This has nothing to do with the Nemean Games, but is an installation-ode for Aristagoras of Tenedos, on his election as president of the Council, <abbr epub:type="se:era">BC</abbr> 446(?). He was indeed an athlete, and might have won distinction in the Great Games, had his parents allowed him to compete.</p>
				</header>
				<section id="nemean-11-1">
					<header>
						<p>Strophe 1</p>
					</header>
					<p>
						<span>O Hestia, child of Rhea, who hast city-halls in ward,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Sister of Zeus most high and Hera throned beside her lord,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">To thy bower welcome Aristagoras with gracious mien;</span>
						<br/>
						<span>His feres to approach thy gleaming sceptre welcome graciously,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Who keep in safety Tenedos the while they honour thee.</span>
					</p>
				</section>
				<section id="nemean-11-2">
					<header>
						<p>Antistrophe 1</p>
					</header>
					<p>
						<span>Thee oft as chief of Goddesses with spilt wine reverence they,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>And oft with reek of sacrifice, while peal out lyre and lay.</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">At Guest-ward Zeus’ unfailing feast is worshipped Justice’ Queen</span>
						<br/>
						<span>So with fair fame and heart unvext may Aristagoras</span>
						<br/>
						<span>On to the consummation of his twelve-months’ office pass.</span>
					</p>
				</section>
				<section id="nemean-11-3">
					<header>
						<p>Epode 1</p>
					</header>
					<p>
						<span>His sire Agesilas I count as blest as man may be</span>
						<br/>
						<span>For wondrous goodly form and fearless inborn constancy.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Yet, though a man have wealth and all-surpassing comeliness,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Though he show might pre-eminent in athletes’ conflict-stress,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Let him bethink him⁠—mortal limbs his raiment doth array,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>And the last vesture he shall don will be the grave-mound’s clay.</span>
					</p>
				</section>
				<section id="nemean-11-4">
					<header>
						<p>Strophe 2</p>
					</header>
					<p>
						<span>Yet that his fellow-burghers’ praise acclaim his deeds is meet.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Well may we grace his name in song whose strains ring honey-sweet;</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">For glorious victories six and ten the peoples dwelling nigh</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Crowned Aristagoras and his clan, a clan of peerless fame,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>With wreaths for wrestling and the strife Pankratian proud of name.</span>
					</p>
				</section>
				<section id="nemean-11-5">
					<header>
						<p>Antistrophe 2</p>
					</header>
					<p>
						<span>Yet ah, his parents’ faint-heart fears their stalwart son restrained,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>That Pytho’s and Olympia’s crowns were unessayed, ungained;</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">Else, by the Great Oath’s sanctity I swear that sure am I,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>To Castaly and Kronos’ tree-girt hill had he but gone,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>He had returned with triumph-crowns from rival champions won,</span>
					</p>
				</section>
				<section id="nemean-11-6">
					<header>
						<p>Epode 2</p>
					</header>
					<p>
						<span>When he had kept the fifth-year feast ordained of Heracles,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>And bound his hair with wreaths that gleamed with light of victories.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>But among mortals one is from his blessings’ height down-thrust</span>
						<br/>
						<span>By empty-thoughted self-conceit: through overmuch mistrust</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Of his own strength another letteth slip the honour due.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Because a timorous spirit caught his hand and backward drew.</span>
					</p>
				</section>
				<section id="nemean-11-7">
					<header>
						<p>Strophe 3</p>
					</header>
					<p>
						<span>To old Peisander’s Spartan blood hath Aristagoras claim,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Well may ye trow: from Amyklae he with Orestes came,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">And hither led Aeolian ranks in brazen battle-gear.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>His mother’s brother Melanippus’ blood with his, we know,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Was by Ismenus blent. The might of days of long ago</span>
					</p>
				</section>
				<section id="nemean-11-8">
					<header>
						<p>Antistrophe 3</p>
					</header>
					<p>
						<span>Will in alternate generations bring strong men to birth,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>As harvests spring not every year from tilth of this dark earth,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">Nor are our fruit-trees wont as year sweeps round by circling year</span>
						<br/>
						<span>To bear in wealth unvarying fruit from odour-breathing flowers,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>But rest each second year. And so this mortal race of ours</span>
					</p>
				</section>
				<section id="nemean-11-9">
					<header>
						<p>Epode 3</p>
					</header>
					<p>
						<span>By Destiny’s breeze is driven. Comes from Zeus no guiding sign;</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Yet we embark on many a venturous emprise: yea, we pine</span>
						<br/>
						<span>For exploits many: yea, enthralled by hope insatiate are</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Our natures. But Fate’s tides from man’s foreknowledge roll afar.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>In quest of gain heed measure due. The madness of desire</span>
						<br/>
						<span>For unattainable ambitions hotter burns than fire.</span>
					</p>
				</section>
			</article>
		</section>
	</body>
</html>
